20IO 3rd International Conference on Advanced Computer Theory and Engineering(ICACTE) 
The Improvement of Weighted Association Rules Arithmetic Based on FP-tree 
Bin Zeng 
Center of Modem Educational Technology 
Zhejiang Forestry University 
Hangzhou ,China 
zhengbing 1976@126.com 
Wei Zhao 
Center of Modem Educational Technology 
Zhejiang Forestry University 
Hangzhou ,China 
shanhetaoI976@126.com 
Abstract-When digging association rules among items, the 
items are dealt in an equal way. However, it is usually not 
happen in databases in the real world.Different items always 
have different importance.To reflect them, The way of draw 
weight into items and use weight association rules can solve the 
problem.But weighted association rules arithmetic of these 
research based on Apriori arithmetic at the present,There are 
problems as these:the candidate itemsets is huge, the cost of 
resources is high and the efficiency is low. In regard to these 
problems, a new Weight Association Rules method(FP-WAR) 
was discussed. FP-WAR based on FP-tree to discover weighted 
association rules,FP-WAR handle weight clipping technology 
based on k-support bound of item sets to improve markedly 
efficiency of arithmetic.The experiment shows that the 
efficiency of FP-WAR arithmetic is much better than current 
way to discover weighted association rules. 
Keywords-KDD; Weighted 
FP-tree; K-Support Bound 
Association 
1. INTRODCTION 
Rules;Apriori; 
In recent years, Association rule is an important topic in 
the research of KDD[I). This topic is raised by R.Agrawal 
and others[2][3). But these mining means actually have two 
assumptions: a) Items in the database have the same 
character and function. That means the same importance; 
b) The distribution of items are even, which means the 
frequencies of occurrence are the same or similar, and in this 
frame of arithmetic, items in the database will be deal in an 
equal way. 
However, it is usually not happen in databases in the real 
world. When the distribution of items in the database are not 
even and the frequencies of occurrence are very different, it 
will make the setting of minimum support very hard. If the 
setting is too high, the association rules been found may not 
come down to items with low frequency of occurrence. And 
when the setting is too low, many nonsensical even fake 
association rules will be found. And it may lead to 
Xiao-Li Jiang 
Center of Ecology 
Zhejiang Forestry University 
Hangzhou ,China 
jxI1979@126.com 
Chao Luo 
TIANMU College 
Zhejiang Forestry University 
Hangzhou ,China 
zb@microgrid.com.cn 
combination explosion, the efficiency of arithmetic will be 
decreased until it is infeasible. 
At present, there are several research works [ 4-11] aimed 
at this problem. These research work discover association 
rules based on weight association.Paper[8] advance concept 
of k-support bound of items, and from this it advance 
weighted association rules discover arithmetic. Paper [9] 
advance the concept of k- minimum support to improve the 
original Apriori arithmetic,This arithmetic can dig items with 
low frequency of occurrence but win high profit. And it 
make the discovered weighted association rules match the 
requirement of decision maker and fit the actual requirement. 
Paper [10] advance the problem of level weighted 
association rules.It gives the solution and effective arithmetic 
New_Apriori. Paper [11] identifY items different importance 
with different weights,To compare with original Apriori 
arithmetic, this arithmetic is much valuable. 
Compare with original works of weighted association 
rules discovery, the weighted association rules discovery 
research work of paper [4-11] has made the progress of 
discover more valuable association rules continue. 
But weighted association rules arithmetic of these papers 
[4-11] are based on Apriori arithmetic at present. There are 
problems such as candidate items is huge, the cost of 
resources is high, the efficiency is low. These problems of 
Apriori arithmetic limited their improvement to the 
efficiency of weighted association rules discovery research 
work of paper [4-11] has made the progress of discover more 
valuable association rules. 
In regard to these problems, a new Weighted Association 
Rules method( FP-WAR) was discussed. This paper changes 
the basic arithmetic and advances FP-W AR (The 
Improvement of Weighted Association Rules Arithmetic 
Based on FP-tree) aimed at these problems based on the 
research [4-11). We draw FP-tree into weighted association 
rules discovery progress, build WFP-tree( Weighted FT-tree), 
and use weighted prune FP-tree node technique 
WFP-tree-Prune(Ck) based on k-support bound in the 
978-1-4244-6542-2/$26.00© 2010 IEEE V4-549 
2010 3rd International Conference on Advanced Computer Theory and Engineering(ICACTE) 
building process. With the advantage that FP-tree [12] is 
better than Apriori arithmetic obviously, widely cut the 
weighted irrespective itemsets based on item's k-support 
bound of paper [8] can improve the efficiency of discovering 
usable weighted association rules a lot. The experiment 
shows that the efficiency of FP-W AR arithmetic is much 
better than current way to discover weighted association 
rules. 
II. FP-W AR(THE IMPROVEMENT OF WEIGHTED 
ASSOCIA TION RULES ARITHMETIC BASED ON FP-TREE) 
A. Related Definition 
Similar with paper[3] [8],we observe Transaction 
Database 0 . Its collection of items are 1 = {if, i2, . . .  , 
in}, each transaction is a subset of I, and assign a transaction 
id TID. 
Definition-I: Association rules express X ? Y among 
which XcI, Y c 1 , and X n 1 = 0 . 
Definition-2: Support of association rules express X ? Y 
is the probability of Xu Y is included in transaction 
database. 
Definition-3: Cofidence of association rules 
express X ? Y is the probability of one transaction includes 
X and Y in the same time. 
The given itemset 1= {ij, i2, ... , in} is the importance of 
express , we assign weight W j to each item 0 ,which O<=w 
j<=I ,j= {I, 2, ... , n}. 
Imitate definition 2 ,we can definite weighted support to 
weighted association rules. 
Definition-4: Weighted support of association rules 
express X?y is [
JE
?
U
;J}SUPPORTexuY»). 
Definition-5: One k-itemset will be called weighted 
candidate itemset if its weighted support isn't lower than 
min weighted support threshould value Wmin Slip which means 
[
 ?>J ]eSUPPORTeXUY»)?WminSUP. 
ijEXUY 
Definition-6: Weighted association rule X ? Y interests 
people the most if X u Y is weighted candidate itemset, 
and its support isn't lower than min weighted support 
threshould value min coif. 
Definition-7: k-support bound.If k-itemset including Y is 
weighted candidate,then its mm support IS 
B(y,k)= [ W;n(;::rlwe call this B(Y,k) k-support bound 
ofY 
B. FP-WAR Arithmetic 
(I) FP-WAR Arithmetic Ideology 
FP-WAR arithmetic adopts FP-tree's ideology, builds 
WFP-tree( Weight FP-tree) of the weight of discover 
weighted candidate itemsets, and draws k-support bound 
prune technique WFP-tree-Prune (Ck ) of node of tree into 
the progress of building WFP-tree, prunes the Infrequent 
weighted candidate item sets to further improve the 
efficiency of arithmetic. 
(2) The Procedure of FP-WAR Arithmetic 
I) Scan Transaction Database D once to produce 
candidate item sets F and its support. 
2) Accumulate support of l-itemset , calculate 
k-support bound of each l-itemset in F. 
3) Collect l-itemsets whose support are not lower 
than k-support bound, and produce weighted 
candidate item set F (l-itemsets produce by all 
the items x in Fw are weighted candidate item set 
Cl ) and weighted support of item x. 
4) Build WFP-tree: 
a) Built root node of WFP-tree signed with 
"null". 
b) Do these steps to each transaction t in 
Transaction Database D: chose frequent 
items from t by weighted frequent items 
list L, delete Infrequent weighted item-set, 
place frequent items in transaction t by the 
order of elements' apperence in L.Use [ pi P] 
to express the ordered candidate elements, p 
is the first element, P is the list of the rest of 
elements. Then invoke insert WFP-tree ( [ p i 
P] , T ). 
c) Among which, the process of function insert 
WFP-tree ( [ p i P] , T) is: If T has child 
node N, and N. item_name = Pitem_name, 
then add 1 to count of N,or build new node 
N and count 1 ,its parent node is T, the node 
will be link to the next node with the same 
name .If P is not null, then recursion employ 
insert WFP-tree ( P , N). 
d) Weighted prune FP-tree node technic 
WFP-tree-Prune(Ck) based on k-support 
bound. the specific way to prune is: Subsets 
of candidate itemsets in Ck is not in Ck_ 
j,estimate the upper bound of support of 
candidate k-itemset x. It is the min support 
of k different (k-I) -item subset in 
Ck_j.According to calculated k-support 
bound of all the calculated itemsets, If the 
estimated upper bound to support shows that 
itemsets x can't be a subset of any candidate 
itemsets in subsequence scan, then it can be 
pruned. 
e) Print weighted candidate itemsets of 
[ LWJ ]eSUPPORTeXUY))?WminSUP. 
ijEXUY 
5) Print weighted association rules. The precedure is: 
Directly produced by all the found weighted 
V4-550 
2010 3rd International Conference on Advanced Computer Theory and Engineering(ICACTE) 
candidate item sets. In detail, to all the subsets a 
which are not null of each weighted candidate 
itemset L'if [ ?>jl(SUPPORT(XUY»?wmjnsup , 
iJEXUY 
and its support isn't lower than min support 
treshould value min corif', than there is weighted 
association rule X => Y . 
III. EXPERIMENT AND ANALYSIS OF RESULT 
We use Visual Foxpro on Pentium II 400 with 64M ram to 
compare FP-WAR with DWAR(discovery of weighted 
association rules) of paper [8] in the same experiment 
enviroment as paper [8], and do the arithmetic performance 
test with combined data. 
The way to produce combined data is similar with 
paper[4],produce randomly with exponential distribution 
while producing the weight of each item. The result of this 
arithmetic is fig 1 and fig 2. 
50 
40 
? 
(j 
30 Q) C/J 
v 
E 20 § 
? 
10 
0 
1000 
50 
40 
U' 
30 Q) ? 
Q) 
§ 
;:; 20 
::l 
? 
10 
o 
2 
I--+--FP.WAR -+-DWARI 
2500 5000 7500 10000 
The number of Transaction 
Fig I. Compare of Diffusive Character 
I--+--FP.WAR -+-DWARI 
? 
/ 
? 
... -------
0.5 0.25 0.05 
Minimum Weighted Support Percentage(%) 
Fig2. Compare of Performance 
We test diffusive character of arithmetic first in Database 
L We start the number of customers' transaction in the test 
database from 1000, and increase to 10000, Set the min 
support as 2%.The diffusive character data curve of this 
arithmetic is fig I. 
Then we test the performance change of arithmetic with 
different min support in in Database II. The test database is 
fixed to the new 5000 tuples, chan the min support to these 
value: 2%, 1%, 0.5%, 0.25% and 0.05%.The result is 
showed in fig 2. We can find that when the support 
decreased, the execute time arised. 
From figl,2 we can find FP-WAR arithmetic's 
performance is highly improved compared with DWAR 
arithmetic in the diffusive character and efficiency of 
execution of arithmetics. 
IV. CONCLUSION. 
This paper mainly solves the problems such as 
efficiency of discovery weighted association rules is not 
high enough, Our research based on work of paper [4-11], to 
continue the progress of improving the efficiency of 
weighted association rules discovery arithmetic. From the 
experiment, We can find that FP-WAR can cut more 
Infrequent weighted candidate items compared with related 
research [4-11] in weighted association rules discovery 
process, to further improve the performance of arithmetic, 
and the total efficiency of execution is highly raised. The 
research findings "online wire and cable technical parameter 
and electrical performance of products association 
collecting analysis system" has been ploughed into 
industrialized application, and get good effect. 
ACKNOW LEDGEMENT 
The project is supported by Zhejiang Provincial Natural 
Science Fund under grand No.Y1090603;Zhejiang Science 
and Technology Department Project under grand 
No.2009C350l2;Zhejiang Hangzhou Science and 
Technology Department Project under grand 
No.20062422B09;Zhejiang Forestry University project under 
grand:No.200728, YB0848 and YB0634;Zhejiang Hangzhou 
Education Department Project under grand N020070389. 
REFERENCES 
[I] Ou·Yang, W ei·m in, Cai, Qing·sheng. "Researches on discovery of 
association rules. Computer Science," Vo1.3,1999, pp.4l- 44. 
[2] Agrawal, R , Imielinski, T. , Swam i, A Mining association rules 
between sets of item s in large databases. In: P roceedings of the 
1993 ACM S IGMOD International Conference onM anagement of 
Data. W ash ington, DC, 1993, pp.207-216. 
[3] A grawal, R , Srikant, R Fast algorithm for mining association 
rules. In: Proceedings of the 1994 International Conference on Very 
L arge Data Bases. Santiago, Chile, I 994,pp. 487- 499. 
[4] Brin, S. , Mo twani, R , U llman, J. , et al. Dynamic item set 
counting and imp lication rules fo rmarket basket data. In 
Proceedings of the International Conference onM anagement of 
Data. 1997, pp.255-264. 
[5] Brin, S. , Mo twani, R. , Silverstein, C. Beyond market baskets: 
generalizing association rules to co rrelations. In: P roceedings of the 
ACM S IGMOD International Conference onM anagement of Data. 
I 997,pp,265- 276. 
V4-551 
2010 3rd International Conference on Advanced Computer Theory and Engineering(ICACTE) 
[6] Bing, L iu, H su, W. , M a, Y. M ining association rules w ith multip 
Ie m inimum suppo rts. In P roceedings of the KDD'99. San D iego, 
CA , 1999. 
[7] A ggarwal, C , Yu, P S A new framewo rk fo r item set generation. 
IBM Research Repo rt, RC221064. 
[8] Ou-Yang Wei min , Zheng Cheng , Cai Qing sheng, "D iscovery 
ofWe ighted Assoc i a t ion Rules i n Da taba ses," Journal of Sof 
tware, 200l,Vo I .  12, No. 4, pp.612-619 
[9] Zhang Qiu-yu , Cao Hua,"Mining of weighted association rules 
based on algorithm Apriori," Journal of Lanzhou University of 
Technology, Vol . 33 No. 6,Dec. 2007,pp.69-71 
[10] Zhang Zhi-jun,Fang Ying, Xu Yun-tao, "Mining Horizontal 
Weighted Association Rules Based on Algorithm Apriori," 
Computer Engineering and Applications,2003,pp.197-199 
(II] An Ying, "Mining Interest Set - Weighted Association Rules Based 
on Algorithm Apriori," Journal of Beijing Union University(Natural 
Sciences), Vol . 22 NO. 4 Sum No. 74,Dec. 2008,pp.44-47 
[12] Han J et al Mining frequent patterns without candidate 
generation. In : Proceedings of the 2000 ACMSIGMOD Conference 
On Management of Data , Dallas , TX, 2000 
V4-552 
