978-1-4244-8003-6/10/$26.00 ©2010 IEEE 
 
Sequential Pattern Finding: A Survey 
Naseer Ahmed Sajid, Salman Zafar, Sohail Asghar 
Department of Computer Science 
Mohammad Ali Jinnah University 
Islamabad, Pakistan 
nasajid2005@gmail.com, salmanzafar3@gmail.com, 
sohail.asghar@jinnah.edu.pk  
 
 
Abstract— To gain the competitive advantage in today’s age of 
technology, growing data and to bear the competitive pressure, 
making strong decisions according to customer’s need and 
market trend has become very important. With huge amount of 
data on internet, web data mining has become very significant. 
Web Usage helps companies to produce productive information 
pertaining to the future of their business function ability by 
analyzing the usage information from their websites. Sequential 
Patterns allow the collection of web access data for web pages. 
This usage data provides the paths leading to accessed web pages 
and their sequences which can give us valuable information about 
user’s behavior and effectiveness of websites. The focus of this 
survey paper is to review the challenges, issues and techniques for 
finding sequential patterns in the context of web usage mining. 
For this, different techniques from the literature have been 
reviewed.  Analysis of the existing techniques related to the 
sequential pattern finding has been done on the basis of the 
existing literature and some parameters are proposed. The 
comparison criteria for the analysis include Graph Structure, 
Input Data Structure, Input Parameters, Pattern Type, 
Application, Technique, Method, Algorithm, Scalability and Tool 
Support. The reviewed techniques are divided into three groups 
Clustering; Association; Markov Model based techniques. By 
analyzing all the techniques with the help of above defined 
parameters, compare and contrast we finally conclude that the 
two clustering techniques based on Markov Models (Line 
Prediction and Path Analysis Using Markov Chains & Using 
Markov Chains for Structural Link Prediction for Adaptive Web 
Sites) proposed by Sarukkai  & Zhu et al. respectively, are the 
best sequential pattern finding techniques. Analyzing different 
techniques also show that the hybrids of different techniques can 
be used to find sequential patterns in web usage mining data. 
Strength and weaknesses of one technique can complement of the 
other technique so it is best to use techniques in combination if 
we want accurate patterns efficiently.  
Keywords- Sequential patterns; Clustering; Association 
Rules; Markov Model; Web Usage Mining    
I.  INTRODUCTION  
Internet has become perhaps the biggest searching tool in 
today’s age now. People want to enhance their businesses 
electronically. However, E-businesses may not just build a web 
site and then sit back and pick the benefits, which, in most 
cases, is unrewarding. People have to implement web mining 
systems to understand their customers' profiles and identify 
strengths and weaknesses of their E-marketing efforts on the 
web through continuous improvements [25]. Internet is a gold 
mine, but only for those companies who realize the importance 
of Web mining and adopt a Web mining strategy now [25]. 
Web Mining is the integration of information collected from 
the traditional data mining methodologies with information 
collected over the World Wide Web (WWW). It is used to 
understand the user’s behavior and evaluate the effectiveness of 
the web sites. Useful hidden information can be used to 
discover the visitor’s profile and can also measure online 
marketing efforts.  
Web mining can be divided into three categories; Web 
Content Mining (WCM), Web Structure Mining (WSM) and 
Web Usage Mining (WUM). WCM is used to discover useful 
information from text, graph, audio or video data in the web. 
WSM describes the organization of data from web structures, 
XML or HTML tags. There are two types of WSM, one is 
intra-structure (hyperlinks with in page) and other is inter-
structure (hyperlinks from one page to other page). WUM is 
the process of finding user’s intention and data from the web 
logs, for example; IP Address, time and date. It helps to find 
the search patterns for a particular user’s group [18]. Web 
Usage Mining (WUM) techniques provide knowledge about 
the behavior of the users in order to extract relationships in the 
recorded date. So focus of this paper is on WUM. It is used to 
find the access patterns from the web. It exposes the usage 
pattern with cluster mining, association rules mining and 
sequential pattern mining. According to Jain & Dubes [22], 
clustering is an unsupervised technique; by using it we can 
group a given collection of objects into meaningful clusters. 
     According to Mobasher et al. [23], association rule mining 
identifies the associations among the dataset, so a subset of 
transactions implies that presence of other also. These 
techniques are more frequently used for web usage mining 
[19]. Martha Koutri et al. define the web usage mining process 
as given in Figure: 1 [19]. 
 Figure 1: Web Usage Mining Process [19]
Raw Usage 
Data Preprocessing
Preprocess
ed Usage 
Data
Pattern 
Discovery
Usage 
Patterns
Pattern 
Analysis
Interesting 
Patterns, 
Rules, 
Statistics  
In this paper, our focus is only on the sequential pattern 
mining techniques. Agrawal et al. [21], define a problem of 
finding inter-transaction patterns. Under this context, a pattern 
is an ordered list of sets of items. In sequential pattern, we 
identify frequently occurring event sequences (temporal 
patterns) in the data. This technique is very useful for the 
identification of navigational patterns. We can discover 
sequential patterns by using two methods, by using 
deterministic techniques (recording the navigational behavior 
of the user) and stochastic methods (use the sequence of web 
pages that have been visited in order to predict subsequent 
visits) [20]. We have considered two data sources, web logs 
and databases. Data is automatically generated and stored in 
server access logs, referrer logs, agent logs and client side 
cookies. We are not considering the preprocessing step; we 
assume that it has done already. 
This paper extracts absolute information as stated by the 
authors of proposed approach and then we analyze it on our 
extracted parameters. In Section II we explain the main points 
of all the surveyed techniques individually. In Section III 
assessment criteria for the analysis of techniques has been 
defined, in section IV the surveyed techniques are discussed 
and their analysis has been done based on the identified 
parameters, and in section V, the survey is concluded. An 
analysis matrix based on our analysis has been given in Table: 
I.   
II. SURVEYED TECHNIQUES 
Sequential Pattern techniques can be deterministic 
techniques which record the navigational behavior of the user, 
and stochastic techniques that use the sequence of Web pages 
that have been visited in order to predict subsequent visits. 
Markov models are the widely adopted models for sequential 
pattern discovery for link prediction due to their suitability to 
modeling sequential processes. Different variations of Apriori-
like algorithms have also been adopted in most of the 
techniques related to the mining of sequential patterns for 
WWW. Our survey contains the following techniques: 
Chen et al. [1] introduced the concept of “maximal forward 
references”. The Maximal Forward (MF) references algorithm 
aims at converting the original sequence of Web server logs 
into a set of traversal patterns based on statistically dominant 
paths and association rules. MF references can be defined as 
the sequence of documents requested by a user up to the last 
one before backtracking. The approach proposed works in two 
steps. The first one is the MF algorithm. In the second step they 
proposed two more algorithms. One determines the large 
reference sequences using hashing and pruning techniques and 
the other further improves it in terms of the database scans.  
The selective scan option is the strength of their technique [1].   
Pei et al. [2] introduced the WAP-mine algorithm in which 
mining is performed in a Web access sequence database to 
depict access patterns. The length of web log pieces can be 
very long in web mining and it can be in a huge number.  They 
use a conditional search strategy and a proposed WAP-tree 
structure. The WAP-tree stores complex and critical 
information for web access pattern mining. It stores all count 
information for pattern mining and thus makes mining process 
free from counting candidates by pattern matching. The search 
strategy WAP-mine is proposed to mine non-redundant web 
access patterns. The WAP-mine algorithm is faster than the 
conventional Apriori based techniques of web access patterns 
mining. The WAP-mine and GSP algorithm [14] are compared 
and it is seen that Web-mine surpass GSP in term of scalability.  
Mortazaviasl et al. [3] introduced the idea of progressively 
partitioning the database of user sequences into smaller sub-
databases for mining sequential patterns. They introduced a 
new projection-based algorithm for mining sequential patterns 
called the PrefixSpan.  It uses the frequent sequence trellis to 
partition the database. It traverses the frequent item lattice 
level-by-level in depth-first order. PrefixSpan exhibit a greater 
selectivity while in the FreeSpan it is not guaranteed that a 
projected database would shrink in size or not. Because of 
changing business needs some sequential patterns become 
invalid and some needs to be updated which are not solved 
with Prefix Span.  
Inokuchi et al. [4] introduced a standard for revealing 
patterns that frequently appear in structured data. The proposed 
algorithm extends Apriori algorithm and uses a graph structure 
which allows the ability to reveal patterns from graph 
structured data. Furthermore, it has the ability to find frequent 
sub graphs from both directed and undirected graph structured 
data having with labeled or unlabeled nodes and links.  
According to the authors, this approach may be applied for the 
analysis of user browsing behavior. The generalization of the 
adjacency matrix representation and the extension to the other 
class of sub graphs and mining criteria are the open issues in 
this technique. 
Conventional mining works on minimum support based 
approaches for specifying patterns of interest which is very 
restrictive. Garofalakis et al. [5] presented a different approach 
in which the SPIRIT family of algorithms has been developed 
for mining frequent sequential patterns. These algorithms shore 
up the user-specified constraints for the resulting patterns and 
the user-specified value for the support threshold. The 
constraints are given with a flexible constraint specification 
language with regular expressions. This helps the miners to get 
more focused and accurate results according to their needs. The 
degree to which the RE constraints can be enforced to prune 
the search space of patterns during computation is the 
distinguishing factor of this approach [5].  
Another user-specified time constraints approach has been 
proposed by Masseglia et al. [6]. In this approach specification 
of minimum and maximum time gaps among web log entries 
are required by the user. The processing of user access data is 
performed by using the GENERAL algorithm, a variation of 
the GSP algorithm [13] for finding generalized sequential 
patterns. WebTool is the tool proposed by the authors for 
applying data mining techniques like association rules or 
sequential patterns on web access logs. Markov modeling for 
Web data was introduced in 1995 by Bestavros et al. [16]. They 
employ a first-order hidden Markov model in order to predict 
the successive link that a user might follow within a certain 
period of time.  
Sarukkai [7] uses Markov chains to model sequences of 
Web pages. Markov chain can be constructed using training 
data and then further refined from client/server histories. They 
are used to determine next page, based on current one.  A 
probability distribution over “preceding” links in the user's 
browsing history is utilized in order to assign weights to 
“preceding” links, and thus create the “best” predictors of the 
subsequent links. The technique is not best suited for smaller 
applications. No comparison to other technique is given and 
processing time and bandwidth is not considered. The approach 
is statistical by nature and Markov Chain matrix becomes very 
large. 
A similar approach to Sarukkai is applied by Zhu et al. [8], 
in which the referrer information from the log file, the page that 
the user has followed in order to arrive at the requested page 
has also been utilized. An algorithm for transition probability 
matrix compression is used to cluster Web pages with similar 
transition behaviors. The algorithm compresses the transition 
matrix to a best possible size for efficient probability 
calculation in link prediction. MF approach is then applied to 
improve efficiency of link prediction. The link prediction is 
checked in the system ONE (Online Navigation Explorer). 
“The link prediction can be further improved by identifying 
users’ goal in each visit”[8]. If compared with the approach of 
Sarukkai [8] this approach can predict more steps in the future. 
Different Markov models are used for different clusters in 
order to characterize and visualize the navigational behavior of 
various types of user. Anderson et al. [9] use a mixture of a 
first-order Markov models to describe the browsing behavior of 
Web users and predict subsequent requests. The paper focuses 
on the wireless web navigation. An algorithm MINPATH is 
proposed which automatically improves wireless web 
navigation. It suggests useful shortcut links in real time by 
using a learned model of web visitor behavior to estimate the 
savings of shortcut links. It suggests best links. A mixture of 
predictive models like Naive Bayes models and mixtures of 
Markov models are used. MINPATH finds useful shortcuts 
when used with these models and thus save extensive 
navigational effort. The scalability of MINPATH is to be 
checked on the larger fielded websites.  
Spiliopoulou et al. [10] used their Web Utilization Miner 
(WUM) tool for sequential pattern discovery.  “Given a 
number of traversed paths, discover sub paths with structural 
and statistical properties of interest” [10], is the main theme 
addressed in this approach. The MINT Processor module of 
WUM extracts sequence rules from the pre-processed Web log 
data. Human experts can define constraints and the MINT 
processor provides interactive mining. The aggregate data is 
used for the mining purpose which considerable reduces the 
size of the dataset under processing. The MINT mining 
language is used for the interaction, which facilitates pattern 
specification in an SQL-like format. This language helps in 
specifying the content, the structure and the statistics of 
navigation patterns. The semi-automated discovery process is 
supported by WUM can be a disadvantage when required to 
use in fully automated web personalization system. The WUM 
is appropriate not only for the websites but also for any kind of 
patterns discovery [10].  
Paliouras et al. [11] proposed a method for discovering 
navigational patterns using clustering. User sessions are 
represented by the transitions between pages which are 
performed during the session. User sessions represented in this 
manner are then clustered to produce community models, 
which correspond to the navigational behavior of users. Hit rate 
and the site size effects the scalability of methods. The 
approach is tested on a single website so more study is required 
to check it with different other websites. Also, the attribute and 
threshold selection is manual. Only limited and first-order 
modeling of the sequential patterns can be performed but the 
approach can produce interesting navigational patterns [11]. 
Borges et al. [12] presented a stochastic approach for 
sequential pattern finding from user sessions. They are 
modeled using a hypertext probabilistic grammar. Web pages 
are represented by “non-terminal symbols”, links between web 
pages are represented by “production rules” and sequences of 
web pages are represented by “strings” according to the rules 
of this grammar. A directed-graph breadth-first search 
algorithm, using pre-specified threshold values for support and 
confidence is then used in order to identify user navigation 
sessions that are included in the hypertext grammar and 
describe the users’ browsing behavior. They propose the use of 
entropy as an estimator. The output of this algorithm strongly 
depends upon the selected values of the input parameters, such 
as the confidence. According to authors, their model is self 
contained, coherent and compact. The approach can be helpful 
not only for website designers to understand the preferences of 
visitors but also for the individual users to understand 
navigational patterns and increase knowledge of the web 
contents [12].  
III. EVALUATION CRITERIA 
The assessment criteria for the current survey include 
Graph Structure, Input Data Structure, Input Parameters, 
Pattern Type, Application, Technique, Method, Algorithm, 
Scalability and Tool Support. Some of these evaluation criteria 
are extracted from the literature review of the already existing 
papers and some are proposed by us. 
• Graph Structure: If a technique considers a graph 
structure for data it is regarded as Yes, and No otherwise. 
• Pattern’s Type: This parameter tell that the proposed 
technique identifies which kind of patterns. 
Comments/type of pattern identified is written under this 
heading. 
• Algorithm: The name of algorithm which has been 
proposed for finding sequential patterns. 
• Input Parameters: The type of parameters defined by data 
miner empirically for the proposed technique.    
• Input Data Structures: The type of the data structure 
which is used o take input i.e. log file or database.   
• Applications: The type of applications for which these 
techniques are proposed. 
• Techniques: This parameter identifies the technique 
according to one of our three defined groups i.e. 
Association rule mining clustering or Markov Chain.   
• Methods: Techniques are divided into two types of 
methods. One is deterministic (recording the navigational 
behavior of the user) and the other is stochastic method 
(use the sequence of web pages that have been visited in 
order to predict subsequent visits). 
• Tool: Tool Support means either the proposed techniques 
has some tool developed for the mining sequential patterns 
or not. It is also checked whether a tool support is possible. 
In this regard the experimental results have been checked. 
• Scalability: It refers to the ability of mining sequential 
patterns to support a large and complicated data sources. 
The factor is categorized as Yes or No in the comparison 
table to differentiate between techniques on the basis of 
performance by ensuring if a particular technique can 
gracefully handles the increase in size of data source.  
IV. ANALYSIS 
Chen et al. [1] introduced the concept of “maximal forward 
references” which can be describe as the sequences of user’s 
request documents  up to the last one before backtracking. The 
aim of Maximal forward references algorithm is to convert the 
original sequences of web logs into set of traversal patterns 
based on association rules and dominant path.  Options of 
selective scan are very useful and can help to improve the 
performance To expose access patterns using a conditional 
search strategy, Pie et al. [2] introduced a WAP-mine algorithm.  
They also proposed a WAP-tree. This method is faster than 
conventional methods. WAP-mine is efficient than GSP-based 
solution in a wide margin. Mortazaviasl et al. [3] introduced a 
novel projection based algorithm PrefixSpan, which support 
sequential patterns mining. They basically worked on 
partitioning the database of user sequences into smaller 
databases for mining sequential patterns.  
The approach introduced by Inokuchi et al. [4] is used for 
the analysis of user’s browsing behavior. The generalization of 
the adjacency matrix representation and the extension to the 
other class of sub graphs and mining criteria are the open issues 
in this technique.  
Apriori like family of algorithm (SPIRIT family) is 
proposed by Garofalakis et al. [5], which is used for mining 
sequential patterns. These algorithms support user threshold 
and user specified constraints for the resulting patterns. These 
user constraints are given in the form of regular expressions as 
an input. This gives data miner an opportunity to narrow results 
according to his requirement by applying these constraints. 
     For the enhancement of user constraints Masseglia et al. 
[6] proposed an approach where user requires specification of 
minimum and maximum time gaps among web log entries. 
GENERAL algorithm is used for the processing of user access 
data. It is a variation of GSP algorithm proposed by Srikant et 
al. [23] for finding the generalized patterns. 
          Bestavros et al. [24] presented a Markov modeling 
application for web data. To predict the subsequent link within 
a certain period of time that a user might follow, the first-order 
Markov model is used. A probability distribution over 
preceding links in the user's browsing history is utilized in 
order to assign weights to preceding links, and thus create the 
best predictors of the subsequent links. The technique is not 
best suited for smaller applications [7].  Zhu et al. [8] presented 
a similar approach who in addition exploited the web pages that 
the user has accessed to reach at the requested page. An 
algorithm for transition probability matrix compression is used 
to cluster web pages with similar transition behaviors. 
Anderson et al. [9] used first-order Markov models to describe 
the browsing behavior of Web users and predict subsequent 
requests. An algorithm MINPATH is proposed which 
automatically improves wireless web navigation. 
   For the identification of user sessions, Spiliopoulou et al. 
[10] used various types of methods. Authors divide these 
methods into time based and context based. For the discovery 
of sequential patterns Web Utilization Miner (WUM) tool is 
used. For the extraction of sequence rules from the web log 
data, a MINT processor module of WUM is used. A semi-
automated discovery process when used for the personalization 
is a disadvantage for this technique. 
According to the Paliouras et al. [11], clustering should be 
allowed to overlap facts. On the basis of quality of the 
community models, they proposed and evaluated their 
approach. These criteria are independent of the clustering 
method and make no assumption of non overlapping clusters. 
A limited first-order modeling pattern is the disadvantage of 
this approach. 
Borges et al. [12] proposed an approach for the extraction 
of sequential patterns from the user sessions. Hypertext 
probabilistic grammar is used for modeling. One advantage of 
this approach is the automatic generation of navigational paths. 
It requires heuristics for output refinement which can be a 
disadvantage. It is efficient but the output depends on the 
selected values of the input parameters e.g. confidence.  
A. Compare and Contrast 
We have divided the surveyed techniques into association 
rule mining, clustering and markov chain models and the 
compare and contrast is done according to it. 
1) Association Rules Mining echniques[1,2,3,4,5,6,10,12] 
         In these association rule mining techniques, [4, 10] 
consider graph structures but the other techniques [1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 
and 12] have not used graph structure. The input data structure 
used by [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6] is almost same. Threshold input 
parameter is supported by [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 12] techniques and 
[10] used a bunch of traversed paths as input parameter. The 
focus of all these techniques is to find the frequent sequential 
patterns from the input data structures. [1, 2, 4, 5, 10] are 
deterministic and [3, 6, 12] are the stochastic techniques. 
Apriori like algorithms are used by [4, 5] and all other 
techniques [1, 2, 3, 6, 10, 12] are new proposals. Techniques 
[1, 2, 3, 5, and 10] are scalable. At least one tool is supported 
by [1, 3, 6, 10, 12] except [2, 4, 5] techniques. On the basis of 
parameters, we have concluded that technique [10] is most 
efficient technique in this group as it takes the graph structure, 
uses web log files, supports tool and scalability, extracts the 
navigational behavior of user by using algorithm and 
deterministic method. 
1) Markov chain models techniques [7,8,9] 
    These Markov chain models techniques are the clustering 
techniques which take graph structure and use web log files as 
input data structure. [7, 8] use the graph structure,  [9] Uses   
TABLE I.   ANALYSIS MATRIX 
 
wireless web navigations as an input data structure. All these 
three techniques use different type of input parameters and 
pattern types and perform link prediction. They use the same 
method i.e. stochastic and also all support scalability. 
Algorithm and tool used by [7, 8] are the same i.e. transition 
matrix compression algorithm and online 
navigation/recommendation explorer tool but [9] proposed 
MINPATH algorithm. Hence techniques [7, 8] can be 
identified as the best techniques from this group. 
2) Clustering techniques [3, 11] 
    We regarded [7, 8] as the best techniques from the Markov 
Model based techniques. They basically fall under the same 
clustering group so in this section we compare them with 
techniques [3, 11] which are clustering based but are not based 
on Markov Models. Graph structure is not taken by techniques 
[3, 9, and 11] but [7, 8] techniques use the graph structure. 
Web log files are used as an input data structure by [7, 8, and 
11]. Input parameters and pattern types used by all techniques 
are different but three of them [7, 8, 9] are for link prediction 
application. All techniques use the same method i.e. Stochastic 
and all techniques are scalable and have at least one tool 
except technique [11], which has no tool support and is not 
scalable. [7, 8] used the same algorithm. On the basis of 
parameters defined for the analysis and comparison, we 
conclude that [7, 8] being the most efficient techniques from 
[3, 7, 8, 9, 11].    
After the analysis and compare and contrast of different 
techniques based our identified assessment criteria we 
conclude that techniques [7, 8,] are the most efficient 
techniques among all the surveyed techniques. The techniques 
[7, 8] take graph structure, web log files are used as input data 
structure in them, transition probability matrix is calculated 
and extended link prediction has been performed in them. 
Clustering and Markov chain models, the presence of 
supported tools and their attribute of scalability make them the 
strongest choice for sequential pattern finding. In all the other 
remaining techniques some do not use graph structure, some 
of them do not support scalability and some lack tool support.  
V. CONCLUSION 
Web usage mining is an emerging area to find the access 
patterns from the web. Access patterns can provide the valuable 
information about user behaviors, life time value of customers, 
cross marketing strategies across products, and effectiveness of 
promotional campaigns.  We focused on web usage mining 
techniques in this survey paper and reviewed the challenges, 
issues and techniques for finding sequential patterns. We 
divided the techniques in three groups i.e. Clustering, 
Association and Markov Model based techniques. Our findings 
indicate that clustering is the best choice for sequential pattern 
mining and the techniques by Sarukkai [7] & Zhu et al. [8] 
based on Markov Models and are the best according to our 
assessment criteria. We have further analyzed that the hybrids 
of different techniques can also be used to find sequential 
patterns in web usage mining data to gain more efficient 
results. The analysis matrix summarizes the reviewed 
techniques based on our assessment criteria. 
VI. REFERENCES 
 
[1] Chen. M.S., Park. J.S., & Yu. P.S., “Efficient data mining for path 
traversal patterns”, IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data 
Engineering, 10(2), 209-221, 1996. 
[2] Pei. J., Han. J., Mortazavi-asl. B., & Zhu. H, “Mining access patterns 
efficiently from Web logs”, Proceedings of Pacific-Asia Conference on 
Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (PAKDD’00) (pp. 396-407), 
2000. 
[3] Mortazavi-asl. B,  Discovering and mining user Web-page traversal 
patterns. Master Thesis, School of Computer Science, Simon Fraser 
University, 2001. 
[4] Inokuchi. A., Washio. T., & Motoda. H, “ Complete mining of frequent 
patterns from graphs: Mining graph data”,  Machine Learning, 50(3), 
321-354, 2003. 
[5] Garofalakis. M.N., Rastogi. R., & Shim. K, “SPIRIT: Sequential pattern 
mining with regular expression constraints”,  The VLDB Journal, 223-
234, 1999. 
[6] Masseglia. F., Poncelet. P. & Teisseire.M, “Using data mining 
techniques on Web access logs to dynamically improve hypertext 
structure”,  ACM SigWebLetters, 8(3), 13-19, 1999. 
[7] Sarukkai, R. R., “Link Prediction and Path analysis Using Markov 
Chains”, In Proceedings of the 9th World Wide Web Conference, 
Amsterdam, 2000. 
[8] Zhu, T, “Using Markov Chains for Structural Link Prediction in 
Adaptive Web Sites”, UM 2001, LNAI 2109, pp. 298-300, 2001. 
[9] Anderson. C. R., Domingos. P, and Weld.D, “ Adaptive Web Navigation 
for Wireless Devices”,  In Proceedings of the 17th International Joint 
Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI-01), 2001. 
[10] Spiliopoulou. M., Faulstich. L, and Wilkler. K, “A data miner analyzing 
the navigational behavior of Web users”, In Proceedings of the 
Workshop on Machine Learning in User Modeling of the ACAI99. 
Greece, 1999. 
[11] Paliouras. G., Papatheodorou. C, Karkaletsis. V, and Spyropoulos. C, 
“Clustering the Users of Large Web Sites into Communities”, In 
Proceedings of Intern. Conf. on Machine Learning (ICML), Stanford, 
California, pp. 719-726, 2000. 
[12] Borges, J. and Levene. M, “Data mining of user navigation patterns”,  In 
Proceedings of Workshop on Web Usage Analysis and User Profiling 
(WEBKDD), in conjunction with ACM SIGKDD International 
Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining. San Diego, CA., 
pp. 31-36, 1999. 
[13] Agrawal, R., & Srikant, R. (1995). Mining sequential patterns. 
Proceedings of the 11th International Conference on Data Engineering 
(pp. 3-14). IEEE Computer Society Press. 
[14] Ramakrishnan Srikant Rakesh Agrawal,  Mining quantitative association 
rules in large relational tables, Volume 25 ,  Issue 2  (June 1996) Pages: 
1 - 12    Year of  Publication: 1996 , ISSN:0163-5808  
[15] Bamshad M, Robert C, Jaideep S, “Automatic Personalization based on 
web usage Mining”, Volume 43 ,  Issue 8  (August 2000), Pages: 142 – 
151, Year of  Publication: 2000, ISSN: 0001-0782 
[16] Bamshad M, Honghua D, Tao L,  Miki N, “Using Sequential and Non-
Sequential Patterns in Predictive Web Usage Mining Tasks”, 
Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE International Conference on Data Mining, 
Page: 669  Year of Publication: 2002 , ISBN:0-7695-1754 
[17] Jian P, Jiawei H, Hongjun L,  Shojiro N,  Shiwei T,  Dongqing Y,“H-
Mine: Hyper-Structure Mining of Frequent Patterns in Large 
Databases”, Proceedings of the 2001 IEEE International Conference on 
Data Mining,Pages: 441 – 448, Year of Publication: 2001, ISBN:0-7695-
1119-8  
[18] S. Jaideep, C. Robert, Deshpande. M and Tan. P, “Web Usage 
Mining:Discovery and Application of Usage Patterns from Web Log”, 
ACM SIGKDD Exploration, 2000. 
[19] Koutri. M, Avouris. N and Dashkalaki. S, “ A Survey of Web Usage 
Mining: Techniques for Building Web Base Adaptive Hypermedia 
Systems”, IRM press, an imprint of idea Group Inc, 2005. 
[20] Pierrakos. D, Paliouras. G, Papatheodorou.C and Spyropoulos.C, “Web 
Usage Mining as a Tool for Personalization: a survey”, Volume 13 
,  Issue 4  (November 2003), Pages: 311 – 372, ISSN:0924-1868, 2003. 
[21] Agrawal. Rand SrikantR, “Mining sequential patterns”, Proceedings of 
the 11th International Conference on Data Engineering (pp. 3-14). IEEE 
Computer Society Press, 1995. 
[22] Jain. A.K and  Dubes. R.C, “Algorithms for clustering data”, Upper 
Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall (Advanced Reference Series), 1998 . 
[23] Srikant. R.and Agrawal, R., “Mining sequential patterns: Generalizations 
and performance improvements”. Proceedings of the 5th International 
Conference Extending Database Technology, 1057, 3-17, 1996. 
[24] Bestavros. A, “Using speculation to reduce server load and service time 
on the WWW”. In Proceedings of CIKM'95: The 4th ACM International 
Conference on Information and Knowledge Management, Baltimore, 
Maryland, 1995. 
[25] Jinguang. L and  Roopa. D., “Web Usage Mining—Patterns Discovery 
and its applicaions”, www.docstoc.com/.../Web-Usage-Mining:---
Pattern-Discovery-and-its-applications. 
 
