Real-time Diagnosis System Using Incremental 
Emerging Pattern Mining 
Jin Hyoung Park#1, Heon Gyu Lee#2, Jong Heung Park#3 
#Postal & Logistics Technology Department 
Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute, Republic Korea 
{neozean, hg_lee, jpark}@etri.re.kr 
 
Abstract— Currently, as a effort to reduce a rate of death by 
cardiovascular diseases, a lot of researches have been studied 
regarding real-time diagnosis system. So, we implement a 
prototype which is contained of stream data processor and 
incremental data mining module for automatic diagnosis of 
cardiovascular diseases. In the prototype, (i)ECG signal data 
which is transported from body-attached sensor is collected and 
pre-processed, and (ii)diagnosis features of the bio-signal data 
are extracted. And the patients are automatically diagnosed 
using the incremental emerging pattern mining module, then 
(iii)the diagnosis result is provided for the doctor in charge of the 
patients via a web application in order to manage the medical 
history of each patient. So, the prototype is able to diagnose and 
predict patient state on real-time, automatically. 
 
Keywords— Incremental mining, emerging pattern, IEP-TFP, 
ECG analysis, diagnosis system 
I. INTRODUCTION 
A rate of death is rapidly increased by cardiovascular 
diseases during last several decades; therefore, a number of 
researches have been studied for preventing that. As the result 
of the researches, some units which are able to extract medical 
information through simple operator or a spatial dress are 
developed. After grafting USN (ubiquitous sensor network) 
technique onto simple diagnosis unit, it is possible to monitor 
patients on real-time. But, a novel system which is 
automatically able to diagnose the cardiovascular diseases is 
needed, because the monitoring system demands a continuous 
observation by someone. Therefore, a lot of data mining 
methodologies have been studied for classifying either normal 
or patient automatically. 
In [1], [2], ECG signal data of a patient is collected and 
analysed off line. Then, those diagnose a patient’s state using 
the analysed result, which have a high accuracy in the 
diagnosis. However, the researches have some drawbacks. 
Representatively, the state of the patient is only recorded in 
case of having an emergency. So, in [3], an ECG of a patient 
is monitored and diagnosed by using a PDA mobile, which 
machine learning is applied. However, one of the major 
problems of this research is low performance of the hardware, 
because most machine learning algorithms have a high time 
complexity. 
In order to solve the problem, a signal processor of stream 
data collected from patient’s sensor and data mining technique 
which is able to diagnose patient’s state on real-time is 
demanded. 
In this paper, a prototype which collects the ECG signal 
data and diagnoses cardiovascular diseases is proposed. 
According to the prototype, optimal medical service is able to 
provide for the patients in emergency state. Also, accuracy of 
the diagnosis will be gradually improved by applying the 
incremental mining technique. That is able to apply for u-
heath care system and support the tailored medical service to 
each patient. Also, a novel paradigm is suggested in the fields 
of medical industry and academia by taking fast measures for 
the patient’s emergency. 
II. DATA PRE-PROCESSING AND EMERGING PATTERN MINING 
In this section, we describe feature extraction, emerging 
pattern, and incremental emerging pattern-based total from 
partial(IEP-TFP), which are core in data mining server. 
A. Extracting the Features 
A total of 13 features were extracted from HRV (heart rate 
variability) in this study. These features included traditional 
HRV features adopted from previous studies [4], [5], [6].  
The analysis of HRV, the variation of period between 
consecutive heart beats from ECG signal, provides valuable 
information to assess the autonomous nervous system (ANS), 
which can be significantly affected by many disease states and 
physiological change [7]. HRV analysis methods can be 
divided into frequency domain, time domain and nonlinear 
methods. In the following HRV analysis methods are 
discussed shortly. A detailed description of HRV features can 
be found in [8]. 
 
Time domain feature: The time domain features are the 
simplest ones calculated directly from the RR interval time 
series (i.e. intervals between consecutive R-peaks). Time 
domain measures are the mean RR interval (RRm), the 
standard deviation of all RR intervals (SDRR), and the 
standard deviation of differences between adjacent RR 
intervals (SDSD). 
 
Frequency Domain Feature: After computing the time 
domain features (the mean RR intervals), we used fast Fourier 
transformation (FFT) to obtain the power spectrum of the RR 
intervals. Then, we defined various areas of spectral peaks [9]. 
The commonly used frequency bands are total power (TP, 
0~0.4Hz), very low frequency (VLF, 0~0.04Hz), low 
frequency (LF, 0.04~0.15Hz), high frequency (HF, 
0.15~0.4Hz). The most common frequency domain features 
978-1-4244-8812-4/10/$26.00 ©2010 IEEE
include the normalized power of LF and HF bands, and the LF 
to HF ratio. 
 
Nonlinear Feature: It is realistic to presume that HRV also 
contains nonlinear features due to the complex regulation 
mechanisms controlling it. The various nonlinear features of 
HRV can be evaluated by extracting regularity indexes. One 
simple and easy to comprehend nonlinear method is the so 
called Poincare plot. It is a graphical presentation of the 
correlation between consecutive RRIs. The Poincare plot may 
be analyzed quantitatively by fitting an ellipse to the plotted 
shape. The center of the ellipse is determined by the average 
RRI. SD1 means the standard deviation of the distances of 
points from the y = x axis, SD2 means the standard deviation 
of the distances of points from y = -x+RRm axis, where mRR  is 
the average RRIs. We also computed the features, SD2/SD1, 
and SD1SD2, describing the relationship between SD1 and 
SD2 in our study.  
All features of HRV used in this paper are presented in 
Table I.  
TABLE I. 
DESCRIPTION OF HRV FEATURES 
Feature Index Description 
Frequency 
domain 
nLF Normalized low frequency power 
nHF Normalized high frequency power 
LF/HF The ratio of low- and high-
frequency  power 
Time 
domain 
RRm The mean of RR intervals 
SDRR Standard deviation of all RR 
intervals 
SDSD Standard deviation of differences 
between adjacent RR intervals 
Nonlinear 
SD1 Standard deviation of the distance 
of RR(i)  from the line y = x in the 
Poincare 
SD2 Standard deviation of the distance 
of RR(i)  from the line y = -x + 
RRm in the  Poincare 
SD2/SD1 The ratio SD2 to SD1 
SD1SD2 SD1·SD2 
B. Emerging Pattern Mining 
Emerging Patterns (EPs) are contrast patterns between two 
classes of data whose support changes significantly between 
the two classes. Those patterns have high support in target 
dataset and low support in opposed dataset. By aggregating 
the differentiating power of EPs, the constructed classifiers 
are usually more accurate than other existing state-of-the-art 
classifiers [10], [11].  
The problem definition of EPs is following: 
 
Definition 1: Given two different classes of datasets which 
are background dataset D1, and target dataset D2. Let supD(X) 
is the support of itemset X in a dataset D, and the growth rate 
of an itemset X from D1 to D2 is defined as GR(X). EPs are 
those itemsets with high growth rates from D1 to D2. 
otherwise
XandXif
XandXif
XGR
X
X
0)(sup0)(sup
0)(sup0)(sup0
)( 21
21
)(sup
)(sup
1
2
=>
==
???
???
?
?=
 
 
Definition 2: Given a growth rate threshold ? > 1, if GR(X) 
? ?, an itemset X is said to be a ?-Emerging Pattern (?-EP) 
from D1 to D2. EPs for which growth rate is infinite are called 
jumping emerging patterns (JEPs). Those patterns occur only 
in the target dataset. 
 
Definition 3: The strength of an emerging pattern X is 
defined as strength(X). 
)sup(
1)(
)()( X
XGR
XGRXstrength ×
+
=  
If X is jumping emerging pattern, strength(X) equal to 
sup(X), because GR(X) is infinite. 
Classification by aggregating emerging patterns (CAEP) is 
application of EPs for classification. It uses the scoring 
function which is sum of strength of EP X about each dataset.  
 
Definition 4: Given a test instance T and a set E(Ci) of EPs 
of data class Ci, the aggregate score of T for the class Ci is 
defined as score(T, Ci). 
?
??
×
+
=
)(,
)(sup
1)(
)(),(
i
i
CEXTX
Ci XXGR
XGRCTscore  
The Input transaction T is assigned the class which has the 
highest score using scoring function. If X is jumping emerging 
pattern, score(T, Ci) becomes ?X?T, X?E(Ci) supCi(X), 
because GR(X) equal to supD(X). In order to perform the 
classification by EPs, all attributes must have nominal type. 
Therefore, if some attribute type of dataset is continuous-
valued attributes, discretization task is essential about 
continuous-valued attributes. 
C. Apriori-TFP and Incremental Emerging Pattern Mining 
The Apriori-TFP (Total from Partial) algorithm [12], [13] is 
one of the efficient approaches for mining frequent patterns, 
which has all the functionality of Apriori-T [14], [15] except 
that it operates in a much more efficient manner as a result of 
the preprocessing advantages offered by the usage of the P-
tree data structure [16], [17]. The idea of the Apriori-TFP can 
generate a T-tree from a P-tree in a similar Apriori manner as 
described in [15]. 
 
T-tree (Total Support Tree): The most well-known 
association rule mining (ARM) algorithm that makes use of 
the Apriori [18]. Apriori algorithm used a hash tree data 
structure; however, Apriori can equally well be implemented 
using alternative structures such as set enumeration trees [19]. 
Set enumeration trees impose an ordering on items and then 
enumerate the itemsets according to this ordering. If we 
consider a data set comprised of three records with union of 
six items: {a,c,d}, {a,c,e} and {b,d,f}, then the tree would 
include one node for each large I with its support count. The 
top level of the tree describes the support for 1-itemsets, the 
second level for 2-itemsets, and so on. 
The implementation of this structure can be used effective 
by storing levels in the tree in the form of arrays, therefore 
reducing the number of links are required and it provides 
direct indexing. It is more convenient to build a reverse 
version of the tree, as shown in Fig. 1. The authors reference 
to this form of compressed set enumeration tree as a T-tree. 
 
a
<2>
b
<1>
c
<2>
d
<2>
e
<1>
f
<1>
a
<2>
a
<1>
b
<1>
c
<1>
a
<1>
c
<1>
b
<1>
d
<1>
a
<1>
a
<1>
b
<1>  
Fig. 1 T-tree stored in reverse order 
 
P-tree (Partial Support Tree): The P-tree is a compressed 
set enumeration tree to store partial support for itemsets and 
its internal structure. The top level is comprised of an array of 
nodes, each index describing a 1-itemset, with child references 
to P-tree nodes. The P-tree node are consisting: 1) a support 
field (sup) 2) an array of short integers (I) for the itemset that 
the node represents 3) child and sibling links to further P-tree 
nodes [13]. 
We pass through the input data record by record to build a 
P-tree. The P-tree will have all the itemsets present as distinct 
records in the input data when it is complete, The support 
stored at each node is an incomplete support total, comprised 
of the sum of the supports stored in the sub-tree of the node. 
For each node in the tree, the contribution to the support count 
for that set which derives from all its lexicographically 
succeeding supersets has been included because of the way 
the tree is ordered. 
It is the IEP_TFP (incremental emerging pattern-based total 
from partial) that emerging pattern mining is gradually 
evolved by using tree structure of Apriori_TFP and applying 
the lemmas of FUP[20] for incremental mining. 
 
 
Fig. 2 Framework of IEP-TFP algorithm 
 
Fig. 2 shows the whole framework of incrementally 
constructing IEP-TFP tree.  
EP-T treeDB: Scan the DB and construct the EP-T treeDB by 
the original construction steps of EP-TFP tree without 
pruning.  
EP-T treedb: The construction steps are similar to 
construction of EP-T treeDB. The main difference is that we 
use the concept of pre-minimum support to prune the pre-
infrequent items.  
EP-T treeUD: combine the EP-T treeDB and EP-T treedb to 
achieve the final EP-T treeUD. After that according to a given 
support to prune the infrequent items to get emerging patterns 
we wanted according to definition of emerging patterns. 
III. INCREMENTAL DATA PROCESSING PROTOTYPE 
Fig.3 shows a concept of the implemented prototype. After 
transferring the body sensor’s data via wireless network, the 
prototype has 3 steps for automatic diagnosis. 
  
 
Fig. 3 Concept of the implemented prototype 
 
That is consisting of the followings; stream data control 
server, data mining server, and medical center. 
• The stream data control server which collects and 
processes the ECG signal data reduces the system load, 
by inserting the data collected from multiple clients in 
database on real-time.  
• The data mining server contains feature extraction, 
except data mining module. In order to diagnose 
cardiovascular diseases, it has to extract some features 
from ECG signal data. Accordingly, if ECG signal data 
is send from stream data processor to data mining server, 
the feature extraction module extracts the features. The 
data mining module is automatically able to predict the 
cardiovascular diseases on real-time using extracted 
features. The module generates a classification model 
by using heart signal data (training dataset) which is 
verified by medical institution, and classifies the 
collected data (test dataset) from sensor. Also, after 
generating the first model, the model is gradually 
evolved by updating the additional training dataset 
because incremental mining technique is applied in the 
module. 
• The medical center stores and manages the results 
diagnosed by mining module. So, it is possible that a 
prompt action on emergency. Also, as a web application 
support medical history of each patient, the doctors 
make a diagnosis the state of patient, more accurately 
and efficiently.  
IV. IMPLEMENTATION 
Fig.4 shows the data collection module in the stream data 
control server. This module saves the entire ECG signal data 
transferred from multiple clients in database. There is a list of 
connected clients on the left of the user interface. If a client 
code of right is selected, simple information of the selected 
client is shown on the top of right of user interface. 
Additionally, connecting state of clients is confirmed on the 
bottom of right of user interface. 
 
 
 Fig. 4 ECG signal stream data receiver 
 
Fig. 5 An example screen shot of the feature extraction process 
 
And then, a feature extraction module of the data mining 
server generates all of the features from collected signal data. 
Fig. 5 is shown the extraction result. There are the ECG signal 
and RR interval of a patient at the top of Fig. 5. Also, entire 
extracted features and several diagrams regarding the features 
are presented on the following.  
The extracted features are saved in database, and the data is 
used for a web application of the medical center. Fig. 6 is a 
user interface of the web application for doctors, which is able 
to read the diagnosis result and history of some patients. 
When a doctor logs in the web-site, he is able to see the list 
and clinical information of his patients on the top of this page. 
If he selects a patient, he is able to review the medical career 
of the patient under the clinical information area. 
 
 
Fig. 6 An example screen shot of web application 
 
Additionally, two signal graphs, ECG and RR interval(Fig. 
7) regarding past diagnosis result of a patient, are presented in 
detailed, by clicking a button labeled ‘ECG&RRI Signal’. 
  
 
Fig. 7 An example screen shot of bio-signal 
 
CONCLUSIONS 
We present a prototype which is able to process stream data 
and diagnose cardiovascular diseases. The prototype model is 
able to apply periodic or aperiodic medical examination and 
medical information management system for patients having 
cardiovascular diseases such as cardiac infarction, apoplexy. 
Also, the prototype suggests a novel paradigm to the fields 
of medical academic and industry, because coping with 
emergency is feasible. And tailored medical diagnosis service 
will be offered by using bio-signal analysis technique on real-
time. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
This work was supported by the Postal Technology R&D 
program of MKE/IITA. 
[2006-X-001-02, Development of Real-time Postal 
Logistics System] 
REFERENCES 
[1] J.C. Prather, D. F. Lobach, L. K. Goodwin, J. W. Hales, M. L. Hage, 
and W. E. Hammond, “Medical data mining: knowledge discovery in a 
clinical data warehouse,” Proceeding of AMIA annual Fall Symp., vol. 
101, no. 5, 1997. 
[2] L. Jiuyong, F. A. Wai-chee, H. Hongxing, C. Ji, J. Huidon, M. Damien, 
W. Graham, S. Ross, and K. Chris, “Mining risk patterns in medical 
data,” Proceeding of the eleventh ACM SIGKDD international 
conference on Knowledge discovery in data mining., pp. 770-775. 2005. 
[3] R. Jimena, G. Alfredo, and I. Arantza, “Real-time classification of 
ECGs on a PDA,” IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in 
Biomedicine, vol. 9,  no. 1, pp. 23-34, 2005. 
[4] Task Force of European Society of Cardiology and the North American 
Society of Pacing and Electrophysiology, “Hear rate variability - 
Standards of measurement, physiological interpretation, and clinical 
use,” Circulation, vol. 93, pp. 1043-1065. 1996 
[5] W. S. Kim, Y. Z. Yoon, J. H. Bae, and K. S. Soh, “Nonlinear 
characteristics of heart rate time series: influence of three recumbent 
positions in patients with mild or severe coronary artery disease,” 
Physiological Measurement, vol. 26, pp. 517-529, 2005. 
[6] H. Ding, S. Crozier, and S. Wilson, “A New Heart Rate Variability 
Analysis Method by Means of Quantifying the Variation of Nonlinear 
Dynamic Patterns,” IEEE Transaction on Biomedical Engineering, vol. 
54, no. 9, pp. 1590-1597, 2007. 
[7] M. V. Kamath, and E. L. Fallen, “Power spectral analysis of heart rate 
variability: a noninvasive signature of cardiac autonomic function,” 
Critical reviews in biomedical engineering, vol. 21, no. 3, pp. 245-311, 
1993. 
[8] H. G. Lee, W. S. Kim, K. Y. Noh, J. H. Shin, U. Yun, K. H. Ryu, 
“Coronary artery disease prediction method using linear and 
nonlinear feature of heart rate variability in three recumbent 
postures,” Information Systems Frontiers, vol. 11, no. 4, pp. 419-431, 
2009. 
[9] G. D. Clifford, F. Azuaje, and P. E. McSharry, “Advanced Methods 
and Tools for ECG Data Analysis,” Artech House Engineering in 
Medicine & Biology Series, 2006. 
[10] G. Dong, X. Zhang, L. Wong, and J. Li, “Classification by aggregating 
emerging patterns,” Proceedings of 2nd International Conference on 
Discovery Science (DS'99), pp. 30-42, 1999. 
[11] G. Dong, J. Li, and X. Zhang, “Discovering jumping emerging patterns 
and experiments on real datasets,” Proceedings of 9th International 
Database Conference. on Heterogeneous and Internet Databases 
(IDC'99), pp. 155-168, 1999. 
[12] F. Coenen. (2004) The TFP Association Rule Mining Algorithm. 
http://www.csc.liv.ac.uk/~frans/KDD/Software/Apriori_TFP/aprioriTF
P.html, Department of Computer Science, The University of Liverpool, 
UK. 
[13] F. Coenen, P. Leng, and S. Ahmed, “Data Structure for Association 
Rule Mining: T-Trees and P-Trees,” IEEE Transactions on Knowledge 
and Data Engineering, pp. 774-778, June. 2004 
[14] F. Coenen, P. Leng, and S. Ahmed, “T-Trees, Vertical Partitioning and 
Distributed Association Rule Mining,” Proc. International Conference 
on Data Mining (ICDM 03), Nov. 2003, pp. 513-516, 2003. 
[15] F. Coenen, G, Goulbourne, and P. Leng, “Tree Structures for Mining 
Association Rules,” Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, vol. 8, pp. 
25-51, Jan. 2004. 
[16] G. Goulbourne, F. Coenen, and P. Leng, “Algorithms for Computing 
Association Rules Using a Partial-Support Tree,” Elsevier Science B.V, 
vol. 13, pp. 141-149, Apr. 2000. 
[17] F. Coenen, G. Goulbourne, and P. Leng, “Computing Association 
Rules Using Partial Totals,” Proc. Principles and Pracitce of 
Knowledge Discovery in Databases (PKDD 01), vol. 2168. pp. 54-66, 
Jan. 2001. 
[18] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant, “Fast algorithm for mining Association 
rules,” Proc. International Conference on Very Large Data Bases 
(VLDB 94), pp. 487-499, Sep. 1994. 
[19] R. Rymon, “Search Through Systematic Set Enumeration,” Proc. Int'l 
Conference Principles of Knowledge and Reasoning, pp. 539-550, Oct. 
1992. 
[20] D. W. Cheung, C. Y. Wong, J. Han, and V. T. Ng, “Maintenance of 
Discovered Association Rules in Large Databases: An Incremental 
Updating Technique,” Proc. International Conference on Data 
Engineering (ICDE 96), pp. 106-114, Feb. 1996. 
 
 
