Research and Application on Integration Model of 
Coal Scientific Data Based on Ontology 
LV Yue-dong 
Institute of Computer Science and  
Technology 
Taiyuan University of Science and 
Technology 
Taiyuan Shanxi 
Email?232782824@qq.com; 
Tel?13653658744  
CHEN Li-chao 
Institute of Computer Science and 
Technology 
Taiyuan University of Science and 
Technology 
Taiyuan Shanxi 
 
  
GUO Yong-yi  
Institute of Environment & Security 
Engineering 
Taiyuan University of Science and 
Technology 
Taiyuan Shanxi 
 
Abstract—In the process of data integration, the traditional 
methods are difficult to solve the problems, what are the large 
amounts of data redundancy, faintness of Information 
representation, heterogeneous data and so on. The combination 
of emerging technology and XML-DTD technology can solve 
the above problem better. This paper analyzes the 
characteristics of gas accident of the coalfield, creating an 
OWL ontology model for the gas accident-related data. The 
model describes the gas data and its associated attributes by 
XML Language, making the its data flexible and diverse, 
describing data attributes more clearly. At the same time, 
semantic association rules between the concepts of ontology 
are described by SWRL language, and derived by Jess engine 
to get new data and new conclusion on the basis of Meta-data. 
Thus, In addition to characteristics of the relational model, the 
model also has the function of semantic inferring. Real-time 
data based on ontology model is saved into ontology as an 
entity, relying on semantic reasoning. This method can greatly 
improve the accuracy and efficiency of gas early warning and 
ensure the production of coalmine safety. 
Keywords-Data Integration; Ontology; SWRL Language; XML 
–DTD; Association 
 
I.  INTRODUCTION 
With the information age, vast amounts of data, 
heterogeneous data, semantic confusion and "data island" 
problem led to difficulty in data integration. These problems 
seriously troubled experts in various fields, so that they face 
serious challenges in the process of data mining process. There 
were many similar problems in the gas accident data mining 
process. The aforementioned problems have attracted much 
attention by experts and scholars in the coalfields. 
In the data integration process, the traditional relational 
database and mapping table successfully solved the problems 
of heterogeneous data and redundancy data, but there were 
many defects in the semantic description aspects of these 
methods. Relational database can only constrain data types and 
basic pattern of relationships, but not semantic description. 
Although mapping table can establish mapping between the 
different data attributes, it can solve the problem of data 
heterogeneity and redundancy to a certain extent. However, it 
is difficult to describe the semantics of data attributes and 
association rules. 
In this article, coal domain ontology model is constructed 
for gas accident data. The ontology model describes the data 
and its attributes by XML-DTD. It will extract real-time data 
from the phenomena of gas, all the data saved into the ontology 
model as entities. Association is described with SWRL and 
saved into ontology model to achieve the ontology derivation. 
Therefore, ontology data integration can get more 
comprehensive information to enhance the utilization of data, 
providing great convenience for the reuse of knowledge. The 
model provides a rational approach for the field data storage 
and knowledge reasoning. Experts can access to reasoning data 
by original data. 
 
II. RELATED RESEARCH 
A. Metadata's Role in Data Sharing 
The most classic definition of metadata is "data about data”. 
However, experts and scholars gave different metadata 
descriptions at different times. Overall, the description can be 
divided into the following categories; one argument is metadata 
is the description of the data. The other argument is that 
metadata is the supporting information of data applications. 
The two kinds of definition of Meta-data came from two angles 
as follows, one is to improve the data value from the point of 
view, the other is to improve data applications and services 
from the point of view. In fact, the above two statements on 
metadata have been reflected in the building of scientific data 
sharing platform in China. 
Rational use of metadata can not only can thorough 
understanding of data sources, including the quality, format, 
methods and the details of processing methods, on the other 
hand, the user can quickly find needed information resources, 
and then rely on networks and other ways to obtain these data 
resources and make use of it so as to promote the sharing of 
data resources. Therefore, metadata can play an extremely 
important role on scientific data sharing. 
Sponsors: National Science and Technology Projects 
Project Name: Research on Key Technology of Coal Natural Gas Dust Disaster 
Monitoring and Warning System   
Project Number: 2007BAK29B01 
2010 International Conference on Computational Aspects of Social Networks
978-0-7695-4202-7/10 $26.00 © 2010 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/CASoN.2010.135
583
B. the Concept of Ontology 
Since  the  90s  of  last  century,  the  concept  of  ontology  has  
become Hotspot in the information systems, artificial 
intelligence and knowledge engineering and other related fields. 
In the process of knowledge description, ontology has many 
unique advantages. For example, it is simple, intuitive, efficient, 
and its form is standardized, etc. It has a distinct advantage in 
describing the relationships between concepts in all the 
relevant areas. Therefore it has an important contribution in the 
information data integration and semantic description of the 
network. 
Ontology is an integral concept of concepts, attributes that 
relationship, instance, axiom. The basic modeling primitives of 
ontology are the following five, class, relation, function, axiom 
and instance. Classes are usually also known as concepts. 
Predicate logic and description logic is the logic basis of 
ontology language. It is also the basis for realization of 
semantic features. 
C. Ontology Language 
Currently, the classical framework languages used to 
describe ontology have Ontolingua, Cycl, Loom, Flogic. The 
ontology language generated based on description logic is KL-
ONE. The ontology language based on Semantic Web is XOL, 
OIL, DAML, OWL, etc. OWL language is a kind of 
description language established based on XML, RDF and 
RDF Schema. It has a better mechanism to express the 
semantics. it is also the most commonly used in ontology 
construction description languages. 
SWRL is Semantic Rules Markup Language, which is the 
expansion of OWL language to expand the language with a lot 
OWL horn clause. This article will take this language to 
describe the semantic rules, adding this rule into ontology, 
making the ontology have the ability to self-derived. 
D. Ontology Tools 
One  of  the  soft  wares  more  commonly  used  to  construct  
ontology is protégé. It is a kind of tools used for ontology 
construction based on owl + rdf + NS. It is simple, and can 
view the ontology structure intuitively. Protégé's search 
function can search the global ontology. In this paper, protégé 
is used for ontology construction, ontology constructing 
modeling primitive were gotten by accessing to various related 
documents and consulting related professionals, and analyzing 
specific gas accidents results. Ontology is the first attempt 
applied in coal scientific data integration.  
III. CONSTRUCTION OF GAS ACCIDENTS ONTOLOGY MODEL  
A. Building UML Class Model 
Through researching and accessing to a large number of 
relevant literatures, we know that mine gas accident has a 
relationship with many of situations, but the most important 
factors are as follows, gas state, terrain, mine ventilation and 
ignition source. Most of the gas safety assessment system 
generated its own assessment data based on these factors. 
First of all, in the basis of aforementioned factors, we will 
determine the relationship between the concepts. Then, gas-
related accident data will be collected to establish the 
corresponding UML class model. 
Second, the gas accident related phenomenon is complex 
and diverse, needing to refine these phenomena. And then, we 
can determine the properties of the relevant data to ensure 
ontology concepts and rules clear. Therefore, gas accidents 
related phenomena classification must first be given as follows, 
gas outburst and gas explosion. The following factors 
determine gas outburst, stress potential, destruction power of 
coal, throwing power, gas outburst region, gas state, 
representation of coal strata. The following factors determine 
gas state, energy of gas, relative amount of gas outburst, 
absolute amount of gas outburst. The following factors 
determine representation of coal strata, angle of coal seam, 
thickness of strata, coefficient of coal firm, whether in the fold 
or break point, top rock and coal rock types. The following 
factors determine phenomenon of gas explosion, characteristic 
time of explosion, flame and air velocity, explosion 
temperature, explosion blast wave pressure, hermetic wall 
accept pressure, rate of pressure rising, gas density, explosion 
source. The following factors determine explosion source, 
energy of explosive source, and energy release rate of 
explosive source. Based on the above basis of classification, 
we can extract the data attributes from these phenomena as 
class primitives. On this basis, designer can design out the 
basic structure of ontology, and then providing basic elements 
for adding the association. 
Modeling for collected data gas, the model shown in Figure 
1 
 
Figure 1 UML class model of gas data 
584
B.  Inference Rules Described 
 All the basic elements have been included into the UML 
class model, but the four other primitives cannot be described 
in addition to classes. Therefore, the ontology derivation ability 
cannot produce a good effect. 
If we want add knowledge-inference rule to ontology, we 
should do the work of the following aspects, at first. 
x Determine the basic atomic concept of ontology. 
In the process of establishing ontology, all of the basic 
atomic concepts which ontology need are from previous UML 
class model. Subsequent derivation rules will be the basis of 
these concept nodes. 
x Determine the mapping between properties of ontology 
and properties of UML class model 
The class attributes of ontology and should be correspond 
with class attributes of UML model. 
x Describe associations with SWRL and save them into 
ontology 
 The relationships and rules between above concept classes 
are as follows.  
a) If the coal firm coefficient is greater than 0.12, the 
relative amount of gas outburst is less than 10m / t, gas 
outburst will not happen. SWRL rules described as follows. 
GasRecord??x? ? HasCoeffcient??x??y? ? swrlb: 
greaterThan(?y,0.12)  ? HasPourAbsolutely??x ??z?
?swrlb: lessThan(?z,10) ?GasOutburst??x? 
b) If  the  sum  of  stress  potential  and  energy  of  gas   is  
more than sum of destruction power of coal and throwing 
power, gas outburst will happen. SWRL rules described as 
follows. 
GasRecord ? ? x ? ? HasCrustalStressLatentEnergy ? ?
x??y?? HasEnergyValueGasIncludeing??x??z? ?
HasCoalCastEnergy ? ? x ? ? w ?  ?
HasCoalDestroyedEnergy??x??t? ?swrlb: add(?p,?
y,?z)?swrlb: add(?q,?w,?t)?swrlb: greaterThan(?p, ?
q) ? GasOutburst??x? 
c) If absolute amount of gas outburst  is less than 50t, it 
will be minitype gas outburst. If absolute amount of gas 
outburst exist between the 50t to 100t, it will be medium-sized 
gas outburst. If absolute amount of gas outburst  is more than 
100t, it will be large-sized gas outburst. SWRL rules described 
as follows. 
GasRecord??x??HasAmountGasAbsolutelyOutburst??
x ? ? y ? ? swrlb:greaterThan( ? y, 50) ?
MinitypeGasOutburst??x? 
GasRecord??x??HasAmountGasAbsolutelyOutburst??
x ? ? y ? ?  swrlb: greaterThan( ? y, 50) ?  swrlb: 
lessThan(?y, 100)?Medium-sizedGasOutburst??x? 
GasRecord??x??HasAmountGasAbsolutelyOutburst??
x ? ? y ? ? swrlb:greaterThan ( ? y, 100) ? large-
sizedGasOutburst??x? 
 
d) If energy of gas  is more than stress potential, gas 
outburst will be spontaneous gas outburst. If energy of gas  is 
less than stress potential, gas outburst will be crustal stress 
gas outburst. If the gas outburst is affected by the gravity, it 
will be pour gas outburst. SWRL rules described as follows. 
GasRecord ? ? x ? ? HasCrustalStressLatentEnergy ? ?
x??y?? HasEnergy ValueGasIncludeing??x??z??
swrlb: greaterThan(?y, ?z) ? CrustalStressOutburst??x? 
GasRecord ?? x ??  HasCrustalStressLatentEnergy??
x??y??HasEnergy ValueGasIncludeing??x??z??
swrlb: lessThan(?y, ?z)    ?   SpontaneousOutburst??x?   
GasOutburst??x??WhetherGravityCause(?x? true)?
PourGasOutburst??x? 
e) If the ignition source is present, gas concentration is 
greater than 3.5%, gas explosion will take place. 
GasRecord?? x??  HasGasDensity?? x?? y??
swrlb:greaterThan(?y, 3.5)  ?WhetherAttractFireSource??
x?true??  GasExplosion??x? 
The associations were saved into gas accident ontology 
model shown in Figure 2. 
 
Figure 2 View of Gas Accident Ontology Model 
585
Gas accident ontology model makes each specific gas data 
linked with each other by concept rules. In the modeling 
process, the abstract natural semantics changed into the 
knowledge which computer can identify with describing the 
semantic rules. In the future development of system, the 
relevant ready-made semantic rules can be used. Ready-made 
jess inference engine can draw many conclusions and data that 
you want by aforementioned rules. 
The ontology recorded a lot of gas data, which contained 
many reasoning information. The data we want can be derived 
by certain information and ontology rules for each real-time 
measurement of gas data. This information provides a reliable 
basis to deal with gas accident. Therefore, the seemingly 
unrelated gas phenomenon data can be integrated to get more 
reliable data and information. 
IV. ONTOLOGY-BASED WARNING OF ACCIDENTS AND GAS   
SAFETY 
A. ApplicationBackground of Ontology-based Gas Warning  
Gas accident has been the threat to the safety of coal 
production. Currently, China has a deeper research for the 
mechanism of gas accident, forming a lot of related knowledge. 
They play a very important role in reasoning gas accident 
relevant information. However, the traditional analysis patterns 
of gas safety warning lack of accuracy and efficiency. The 
basic conceptual meta-language and association rules between 
the concepts were described accurately by XML language and 
SWRL language, and then stored into the ontology model to 
achieve semantic ontology reasoning. Real-time data based on 
ontology model is restored into ontology as an entity. We can 
get useful information for early warning of gas, relying on 
semantic reasoning. Comparing with wavelet neural network 
and the grey system theory, this method can greatly improve 
the accuracy and efficiency of gas early warning and ensure the 
production of coal mine safety. 
In coal mine safety production, gas accidents have become 
a problem which cannot be ignored, and seriously endanger the 
lives  of  miners  and  the  state  property.  The  causes  of  the  
accident are variable, such as gas their own state, ignition 
source, the factors of geological structure and so on. Random 
factor is inevitable, but if the monitoring equipment can 
monitor the underground in time, system could access and 
analyze it. The experts can found risks in the shortest time 
possibly, taking appropriate measures to reduce losses to 
minimum. 
In the process of gas accident prediction, the data of 
traditional forecasting methods is not complete. Its reliability is 
low. Its evaluation methods are too strong subjective, and the 
predicted results are also non-dynamic. All of this will lead to 
the failure of gas early warning. 
Ontology is an integral concept of concepts, attributes that 
relationship, instance, axiom. The basic modeling primitives of 
ontology are the following five, class, relation, function, axiom 
and instance. Classes are usually also known as concepts. 
Predicate logic and description logic is the logic basis of 
ontology language, and it is also the basis of achievement of 
ontology semantic features. In the process of gas early warning, 
ontology reasoning achieves self-treatment of real-time data 
and improves the prediction efficiency. This article will present 
the comparison between two kinds of most important gas 
warning methods and ontology-based gas warning to find the 
advantage of ontology-based gas warning. 
B. The Process of Ontology-based Gas Accident Warning  
The language describing ontology is OWL language, which 
is a XML-based extension language. Therefore, many data 
platforms provide API for OWL model to process data, save 
files and search files. Coal monitor equipment provides real-
time gas monitor data, which will be imported into ontology 
model as entities. The new information can be derived from 
these real-time data by ontology jess engine inference. Java-
based jess engine API can handle derived information and 
extract gas-warning data. The gas warning data can be fed back 
to the corresponding user interface in order to achieve the 
effect of real-time warning. The warning data flow as shown in 
Figure 3. 
  
Figure 3 Data Flow Diagram of Gas Accident Ontology Model Warning 
The traditional gas accident warning is often based on loss 
of accuracy and efficiency, which is a fuzzy process so that the 
effect of warning will be negative. Compared with the former, 
ontology warning is more real-time and universality, because 
the data importing into ontology model is real-time, which will 
derive more information from the process of ontology model 
reasoning. This information is accurate and reliable. When 
external conditions changed, the data importing into ontology 
model would also be changed into new warning information. 
Ontology gas warning is accurate and reliable, because it is 
based on precise rules of reasoning and real-time data. 
586
V. FUNCTIONAL ANALYSIS OF MODEL 
x Gas accident ontology model linked gas data with 
specific concept of incident, realizing their semantic 
associations. It generates the links between the original data 
which was originally isolated, scattered, unrelated. It improves 
the efficiency of gas data integration and the ability to derive 
information. This data integration model based on ontology 
applied to coal scientific data integration. It provides a feasible 
solution for coal scientific data integration and retrieval of 
domain knowledge. It provides further foundation for the 
realization of ontology-based retrieval of scientific data sharing 
platform. 
x The amount of gas data produced in China is massive 
every year. This traditional way to save data is not conducive 
to search the data, while how to save knowledge and 
information is also difficult to achieve. If you use the 
appropriate ontology to save data, combining with description 
of ontology semantic can enhance the readability of natural 
language, all of this making use of data and knowledge 
extraction more intuitive and simple. 
x Ontology unique function adding individual make the 
future gas data can be added to it. With the increase of data, the 
correlation between the data will be more obvious. On this 
basis, it is very helpful to find the key incentive of gas 
accidents. 
VI. COMPARISON BETWEEN TRADITIONAL 
GAS WARNING AND ONTOLOGY-BASED GAS 
WARNING 
This article will present the comparison between two kinds 
of most important gas warning methods and ontology-based 
gas warning to find the advantage of ontology-based gas 
warning. 
x Comparison and analysis of the ontology-based 
warning and wavelet neural network forecasting method 
Judging from the amount of data and information, ontology 
model and wavelet neural network forecasting method is 
similar. Some data of wavelet neural network forecasting 
method was shown in Table 1. 
However, judging from the forecast efficiency, wavelet 
neural network is far less than ontology model; because the 
neural network prediction accuracy is closely related 
arrangement of hidden layer. If the hidden node is small, 
convergence speed will be rapid and efficient. Accuracy will be 
reduced. The fault tolerance of wavelet neural network will be 
worse. In contrast, the forecast would need a very long time. It 
would make efficiency of early warning relatively low. 
However, the gas safety-related data are varied. In this case, it 
is difficult to achieve real-time forecast. The way of ontology 
model how to deal with the data is based on the existing rules 
to realize self-knowledge reasoning. Ontology warning process 
is simple and reliable and efficient. Therefore, in order to 
obtain real-time monitoring results. Selecting the ontology 
model is a better method. 
 
Table 4.1 Data of Wavelet Neural Network Forecasting 
Method 
Name Unit Name Unit 
the content 
of rock gas m3/t 
the depth of 
coal seam m 
seam 
thickness m coal spacing m 
average 
daily 
progress of 
working 
section 
m/d daily production t/d 
amount of 
gas 
absolutely 
outburst 
m3/min mining depth m 
x Comparison and analysis of the ontology-based 
warning and forecast of grey system theory 
Despite the prediction of gray system theory is more 
targeted, it is some kind of data in a series of gas measured on 
the basis of the data value of future changes in gas disaster 
prediction. The reliability of gray system theory prediction is 
high, and its algorithm is simple, its gray generation model 
(first-order gray differential equation) as follows. 
uax
dt
dx   )1(
)1(
      (1-1) 
Note: x (1) is generated sequence. It was generated through 
an accumulation based on original discrete data. a, u is the 
unknown parameter . 
Judging from the amount of data generated by the gray 
system theory prediction, it is not more than ontology model, 
and this prediction can only predict some results for some data. 
The most serious shortcoming of this approach is that it blurs 
the mining method and change of mine geological conditions. 
If the mining methods and geological conditions change, the 
change would lead that prediction was meaningless. In contrast, 
ontology model predictions are real-time and more universal, 
because the data incoming ontology model is a real-time. The 
data in ontology model as reasoning to derive more 
information. All of the information is accurate and reliable. 
When external conditions are changed, the data incoming 
ontology will also be changed and form new early warning 
information. 
Ontology model method had compared with wavelet neural 
network method and grey system theory method. Comparison 
shows that the forecast of traditional gas accidents are often 
based on the loss of accuracy and efficiency or the fuzzy 
processing of problem. This will have adverse effects on the 
effectiveness of early warning. However, ontology-based gas 
587
warning is based on precise reasoning rules and real-time data. 
It is the accuracy and reliability. 
VII. CONCLUSION 
The design of ontology model is a process of gradual 
improvement. In the process of coal scientific data integration, 
the problems existing in association of several properties also 
need to be solved at first. The further work will be 
improvement of gas data properties, while we can also do 
further research for the rationality of association rules.  
The incentive of gas accident is vague. Gas accident 
depends on many factors. A number of factors are usually 
uncertain, so it is difficult to determine the main reasons and 
induced probability. In the process of massive data integration, 
ontology has a self-derived capacity, but it is directly related to 
the amount of data. 
References 
[1] Paul Kogut, Stephen Cranefield, Lewis Hart, Mark Dutra, Kenneth 
Baclawski and Mieczyslaw Kokar, Jeffrey Smith, “UML for Ontology 
Development ”The Knowledge Engineering Review archive. Volume 17, 
Issue 1 (March 2002) table of contents?PP61 – 64 
[2] Giancarlo Guizzardi, Gerd Wagner, Heinrich Herre ? “On the 
Foundations of UML as an Ontology Representation Language” 
engineering knowledge in the age of the semantic web: (Whittle burg 
Hall, 5-8 October 2004) vol.3257, pp.47-62 
[3] Lin, Hsien-Tang (Department of Civil Engineering, National Taiwan 
University, Taipei, Taiwan); Hsieh, Shang-Hsien; Chou, Kuang-Wu; Lin, 
Ken-Yu ,” Construction of engineering domain ontology through 
extraction of knowledge from domain handbooks ”Source: Proceedings 
of the 2009 ASCE International Workshop on Computing in Civil 
Engineering, v 346, p 207-216, 2009 
[4] Chen, Ying (College of Computer Science and Technology, Harbin 
Engineering University, Harbin 150001, China); Xu, Gang; Gu, Guo-
Chang , “Data mining approach based on the integration of ontology 
and context knowledge” Source: Journal of Software, v 18, n 10, p 
2507-2515, October 2007  
[5] Dung, Tran Quoc (Graduate School of Global Information and Tele-
communication Study, Waseda University); Kameyama, Wataru,
“Ontology-based information extraction and information retrieval in 
health care domain”  Source: Lecture Notes in Computer Science 
(including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture 
Notes in Bioinformatics), v 4654 LNCS, p 323-333, 2007, Data 
Warehousing and Knowledge Discovery - 9th International Conference, 
DaWaK 2007, Proceedings 
[6] Su, Li (School of Resource and Safety Engineering, China University of 
Mining and Technology, Beijing, China); Chen, Yijin; Zhou, Danhui?
“ Conceptual modeling of spatial database based on geographic 
ontology ”  Source: International Geoscience and Remote Sensing 
Symposium (IGARSS), p 1584-1586, 2006 
[7] Tao, Xiaohui (FIT, Queensland University of Technology, Australia); Li, 
Yuefeng; Nayak, Richi ?“Ontology mining for semantic interpretation 
of information needs” Source: Lecture Notes in Computer Science 
(including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture 
Notes in Bioinformatics), v 4798 LNAI, p 313-324, 2007, Knowledge 
Science, Engineering and Management - Second International 
Conference, KSEM 2007, Proceedings 
[8] Martín Serrano, J. (Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya, C. Jordi Girona 
1-3, 08034, Barcelona, Spain); Serrat, Joan; Strassner, John ?
“Ontology-based reasoning for supporting context-aware services on 
autonomic networks”  Source: IEEE International Conference on 
Communications, p 2097-2102, 2007,  
[9] Zhang, Qiuyu (College of Computer and Communication, Lanzhou 
University of Technology, 730050, Lanzhou Gansu, China); Miao, 
Fengman; Yuan, Zhanting; Zhang, Qikun; Fan, Zhi?“Construction of 
a dynamic trust ontology model ”  Source: Proceedings - 2008 
International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Security, 
CIS 2008, v 1, p 394-398, 2008 
[10] Wu, Junhua (College of Material Science and Engineering, Northeast 
Forestry University, Harbin 150040, China); Wang, Fenghu; Sun, 
Weihong ? “ Knowledge ontology based management system of 
furniture design” Source: Proceedings - 2009 International Forum on 
Computer Science-Technology and Applications, v 3, p 282-285, 2009 
[11] Wang, Jinghua (Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, 
Beijing 100876, China); Wang, Cong; Liu, Jianyi; Wu, Chunhua?
“Information extraction for learning of ontology instances” Source: 
2006 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Informatics, 
INDIN'06, p 707-711, 2007 
[12] Pan, Ding (Department of Marketing, Management School, Jinan 
University, Guangzhou, Guangdong 510632, China); Pan, Yan ?
“ Using ontology repository to support data mining ”  Source: 
Proceedings of the World Congress on Intelligent Control and 
Automation (WCICA), v 2, p 5947-5951, 2006 
[13] Kim, Sang-Kyun (Korea Institute of Oriental Medicine, Korea, Republic 
of); Song, Mi-Young; Kim, Chul; Yea, Sang-Jun; Jang, Hyun Chul; Lee, 
Kyu-Chul ? “ Temporal ontology language for representing and 
reasoning interval-based temporal knowledge” Source: Lecture Notes 
in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial 
Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), v 5367 LNCS, p 31-
45, 2008 
[14] Lin, H.K. (Department of Industrial Engineering and Management, I-
Shou University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan); Harding, J.A. ? “ A 
manufacturing system engineering ontology model on the semantic web 
for inter-enterprise collaboration”Source: Computers in Industry, v 58, 
n 5, p 428-437, June 2007 
[15] Jiang, Xing (Nanyang Technological University, Nanyang Avenue, 
Singapore 639798, Singapore); Tan, Ah-Hwee ? “ Learning and 
inferencing in user ontology for personalized semantic web services” 
Source: Proceedings of the 15th International Conference on World 
Wide Web, p 1067-1068, 2006 
[16] Wang, Min (School of Electronic Information and Engineering, Tongji 
University, Shanghai 200092); Ding, Jianping; Xiang, Yang; Xun, 
Henxing ? “ The research on the jena-based web page ontology 
extracting and processing”  Source: Proceedings - First International 
Conference on Semantics, Knowledge and Grid, SKG 2005, 2006, 
Proceedings - First International Conference on Semantics, Knowledge 
and Grid, SKG 2005 
[17] Chunxia, Zhang (School of Computer Science and Technology, Beijing 
Institute of Technology, Beijing 100081, China); Guiping, Wang; 
Zhendong, Niu?“A formal ontology for temporal entities and its 
application in knowledge extraction” Source: Proceedings of the ACM 
International Conference on Digital Libraries, p 476, 2008, JCDL'08: 
Proceedings of the 8th ACM/IEEE-CS Joint Conference on Digital 
Libraries 2008 
[18] Tury, Michal (Institute of Informatics and Software Engineering, 
Faculty of Informatics and Information Technologies, Slovak University 
of Technology, Ilkovicova3, 842 16 Bratislava, Slovakia); Bieliková, 
Mária?“An approach to detection ontology changes” Source: ACM 
International Conference Proceeding Series, v 155, 2006, Workshop 
Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Web Engineering, 
ICWE 2006 
[19] Stasinopoulou, Thomais (Department of Archive and Library Sciences, 
Ionian University, Palea Anaktora, Plateia Eleftherias, 49100 Corfu, 
Greece); Bountouri, Lina; Kakali, Constantia; Lourdi, Irene; 
Papatheodorou, Christos; Doerr, Martin; Gergatsoulis, Manolis ?
“ Ontology-based metadata integration in the cultural heritage 
domain ”  Source: Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including 
subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in 
Bioinformatics), v 4822 LNCS, p 165-175, 2007, Asian Digital Libraries: 
Looking Back 10 Years and Forging New Frontiers - 10th International 
Conference on Asian Digital Libraries, ICADL 2007, Proceedings 
[20] Tian, Fang (Faculty of Engineering, University of Tokushima, 2-1 
Minamijosanjima, Tokushima 770-8506, Japan); Jiang, Peilin; Ren, 
Fuji ?“A practical system of domain ontology learning using the web 
for chinese ” Source: Proceedings of the 2009 4th International 
Conference on Internet and Web Applications and Services, ICIW 2009, 
588
p 298-303, 2009, Proceedings of the 2009 4th International Conference 
on Internet and Web Applications and Services, ICIW 2009 
[21] Liu, Miao (School of Information and Mechanical and Electrical 
Engineering, Guangzhou University, Guangzhou 510006, China); Guo, 
He-Qing; Su, Jin-Dian?“Semantic matching of ontology instances” 
Source: Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Machine 
Learning and Cybernetics, ICMLC 2007, v 5, p 2959-2963, 2007 
 
589
