Data analysis of Genome-Wide Association studies (GWAS) 
concerning rheumatoid arthritis and multiple sclerosis 
Konstantina Nikolaou, Fanis G. Kalatzis, Nikolaos Giannakeas, Themis P. Exarchos, 
Sofia Markoula, Ioannis Georgiou and Dimitrios I. Fotiadis, Senior Member, IEEE 
Abstract- In this study the methodology of analyzing the 
data produced from Genome Wide Association Studies (GWAs) 
is presented, using appropriate techniques and software 
packages. The analytical process is applied to Rheumatoid 
Arthritis (RA) and Multiple Sclerosis (MS) data sets produced 
by experimental microarray assays. The purpose of the process 
aims to the filtering of the datasets in order to derive and define 
statistically significant genetic variants associated with each one 
of the diseases. Furthermore, the analysis is expanded using the 
MuItifactor Dimensionality Reduction (MDR) data mining 
strategy. Using MDR we are reducing the dimensionality of the 
genotyped predictive factors from n-dimensions to one­
dimension by characterizing the genotypes of the different 
locus as high-risk and low-risk. In this way, we can provide risk 
predictive models about the diseases' susceptibility and the 
methodology is further extended by adding clinical and 
environmental factors to the RA and MS genomic loci data. 
The methodology presented in this study aims to transform the 
analytical genomic datasets produced by micro array 
experiments to a knowledge modeling framework constituted of 
prognostic/diagnostic decision rules and risk predictive factors. 
Finally, the evaluation methodology of the MDR data mining 
strategy is presented. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
A Genome-Wide Association study (GWAS) investigates 
the association that exists between common genetic variants 
and a disease in an unbiased manner, across the entire 
human genome. In order to perform this type of analysis we 
need a dense set of genetic markers, as well as a large 
number of individuals that carry the disease or trait and 
others without it, that are characterized as the control 
individuals in case-control studies [1,2]. The next step 
includes data management and analysis. 
There are already several published GWAS [3] and 
specifically for autoimmune diseases surpnsmg and 
satisfactory discoveries have already been made [2]. 
Manuscript submitted July 10, 2010. This work is part-funded by the 
European Commission (project POCEMON: Point-Of-Care MONitoring 
and Diagnostics for Autoimmune Diseases FP7-ICT -2007-216088). 
K. Nikolaou, F.G. Kalatzis, N. Giannakeas, T.P. Exarchos and D.1. 
Fotiadis* are with the Unit of Medical Technology and Intelligent 
Information Systems, Dept. of Material Science & Engineering, University 
of Ioannina, GR45110, Ioannina, Greece (e-mail: konikol@cc.uoi.gr. 
tkalatz@cc.uoi.gr, me013lO@cc.uoi.gr, exarchos@cc.uoi.gr, 
*Corresponding author; phone: 0030-26510-08803; fax: 0030-26510-
07092; e-mail: fotiadis@cs.uoi.gr). 
S. Markoula is with the Medical School, University of Ioannina, GR-
45110, Ioannina, Greece (e-mail: smarkoula@grads.uoi.gr). 
I. Georgiou is with the Genetics Unit, Dept. of Obstetrics and 
Gynaecology, Medical School, GR45110, Ioannina, Greece. (e-mail: 
igeorgioU@cc.uoi.gr). 
978-1-4244-6561-3/101$26.00 ©2010 IEEE 
Technological progress in genotyping between other 
scientific conceptions has supported the last years the 
considerable increase of GWA studies. Due to linkage 
disequilibrium (LD) that exists between nearby single 
nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), it is not necessary to type 
all genetic loci in order to capture the greater part of 
common variation of a region [4]. Facilitation of the genetic 
studies of human diseases has been made due to efforts for 
cataloguing and mapping the correlation patterns of SNPs 
(i.e. the haplotypes). Concerning this issue, the International 
HapMap project after cataloguing the haplotype patterns 
across the human genome, and analysis of over 3 million 
SNPs, has created a public database [5]. 
Interaction of a number of genetic variants and 
environmental factors, are believed to be the cause of 
complex diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and multiple 
sclerosis. Various data mining approaches have been 
proposed for the association between multiple genomic loci 
and diseases cited in [6], such as dimensionality reduction 
[7], neural networks [8], random forests [9] and support 
vector machines [10]. 
A key component of the point-of-care diagnostic system 
concerns the modeling of the knowledge coming from 
clinico-genomic patient data along with the computation of 
the RA and MS disorders risk predictive factors. The 
datasets of the POCEMON system are composed of 800 RA 
cases, 800 MS cases and 1600 shared controls. The data 
were collected during the genome wide association studies 
from RA and MS cases and controls. The purpose of this 
step is two-fold: a) to extract new and potentially useful 
knowledge and b) provide prediction methods for the 
diagnosis as well as the detection of susceptibility for MS 
and RA diseases. In order to extract new and potentially 
useful knowledge, cluster analysis [11] and association rule 
mining techniques [12] are applied to the collected datasets. 
In order to create predictive models for the diagnosis and the 
detection of susceptibility of the RA & MS diseases, 
classification techniques [13] are applied. 
II. GWASDATA ANALYSIS METHODOLOGY 
Concerning common disease I common variant hypothesis 
(CD/CV), we mean that much of the genetic variation of a 
common complex disease is due to relatively few common 
variants [4]. The standard logic of GWAS design, assumes 
that common variants with modest effects on a complex 
disease exist, explaining part of its variation. G WAS' data 
analysis represent statistical and computational challenges, 
due to the hundreds of thousands genotyped SNPs for 
thousands of persons either carrying the disease (case) or not 
(control) [14]. In our study we use for GWAS the PLINK 
software program [14], to analyze the results of two GWAS 
related to rheumatoid arthritis and mUltiple sclerosis. 
In this data analysis design we took into consideration a 
set of guiding principles for reporting results of genetic 
association studies mentioned by Little et at. [15], included 
into the STrengthening the REporting of Genetic 
Association studies (STREGA) Statement [15]. Software 
version and options used will be clearly stated. The key 
components of the methodology to be implemented for 
analyzing data from case-control GW A studies, which are 
presented in the forthcoming sections, are: (a) Quality 
control and summary statistics, (b) Population stratification 
assessment, (c) SNP association analysis and selection of the 
statistically significant SNPs, using the PLINK software 
[14]. 
A. Quality control and summary statistics 
Using the PLINK, SNP data are finally represented in 
standard text-based formats. The type of data representation 
includes one-row-per-individual format giving information 
about gender, phenotype and genotype for biallelic SNPs, or 
one-row-per-SNP format glvmg information about 
chromosomal position, RS# (reference SNP identifier), base 
pair position etc. At the next step genotype information can 
be reordered and filtered (using a simple interface). 
Comparing values from summary statistics (e.g. genotyping 
rates, allele and genotype frequencies) to thresholds, could 
lead to determination and extraction of SNPs with accepted 
genotyping rates, as well as accepted allele and genotype 
frequencies [14], in order to further incorporate them in 
association tests with the respective diseases. For example 
individuals with > 10% missing genotypes and SNPs with 
> 10% missing data could be excluded [16]. 
In our study conformation to Hardy-Weinberg expectations 
are also checked concerning the observed genotypes, 
because deviations from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium 
(HWE) for a particular SNP may either suggest a problem 
with genotyping or population structure, or on the other hand 
concerning individuals with the disorder, an association 
between the SNP and the disease may exist [17, 14]. 
In GWA studies one method addressed in order to reduce 
potential false-positive results generated due to chance, is 
the application of Bonferroni correction, where the 
conventional p-value is divided by the number of tests 
performed (in our case the number of SNPs tested). Even 
though this approach has been characterized as conservative 
it is the most commonly used approach and is used by us 
[18, 19, 14]. 
B. Population stratification assessment 
Population stratification describes the existence of 
different groups in a popUlation that potentially have 
different marker allele frequencies and disease prevalence 
[1]. Population heterogeneity induces spurious associations 
between genetic variants and the studied disorder [20]. Data 
derived from GWAS require careful statistical analysis to 
assess and correct for differences due to stratification (if they 
exist), in order to exclude false-positive results [21]. The 
PLINK tool set is used to check for population stratification 
[14] (Purcell, 2007). 
C. SNP association analysis 
In order to test for association between SNPs that were not 
excluded for any reason and the respective diseases, RA and 
MS, the analysis approach as implemented in PLINK, is 
used [14]. 
III. RISK PREDICTIVE KNOWLEDGE MODELS 
The architecture for the modelling of knowledge of the 
system is shown in Fig. 1. The selection of the most 
informative clinical features and SNPs is based on 
mathematical measurements like the correlation of the 
' -1 , - -
_ f 
Fig. I. The architecture of the proposed knowledge modeling system. 
features with the target outcome, as well as the consistency 
of the informative set of features with the target outcome. 
Feature selection is used: (a) before clustering in order to 
keep only the important features for developing useful 
profiles, (b) before association rule mining in order to 
restrict the rules only to those that have as antecedent of 
consequent the informative features and (c) before the 
classification, in order to build more accurate and less 
complicated prediction models for MS and RA. 
Cluster analysis is an unsupervised procedure, meaning 
that the outcome (e.g. MS or RA, or normal) is not used as 
input in the clustering procedure. During the clustering 
procedure, records of patients which are close in terms of a 
Euclidian distance are grouped together into the same 
cluster. Algorithms for this task include the k-means 
algorithm, the EM algorithm and the fuzzy c-means 
algorithm. The identified profiles are stored in the 
knowledge repository. Association rule mining aims at 
discovering hidden knowledge within the data in the form of 
rules. The evaluation of rules is performed using the support 
confidence framework and only rules with high support and 
confidence are considered by the experts for storing them in 
the knowledge repository. The rules extraction is 
implemented using the well known a-priori and FP-growth 
algorithms [22]. 
Classification is one of the most important functionalities 
of the knowledge modeling framework, since the 
development of classification models, constitute the 
prediction models for MS and RA. These models are finally 
used to provide predictions for new patients performing an 
examination at the point-of-care. Extensive testing is 
performed in order to identify algorithms with high 
prediction accuracy. Preliminary studies indicate that a 
combination of algorithms (Artificial Neural Networks, 
Decision Trees and Support Vector Machines) - which 
produces highly accurate results accompanied with 
interpretation of the decisions - performs efficiently for the 
needs of the diagnostic point-of-care platform. 
STEt' 1 : ?Iecl I'olymorphisms ? STEP 2 : Calculate Case- ? STEP 3 : Identify Iligh-
Control Ratios for Each Risk Mullilocus Genotypes 
Polymoqlhism 1 
PolymorJlhisllI 2 
PolymoqlhislII 3 
Polymorphism 4 
e 
] ? B 
Polymorphism 10 E 
i 
B 
Mlillilocu Genol)'pe 
Polymorllhism I 
AA Aa 
" . 
" 
, , - .:.11 --
b IS It 
•• 
" 
-
. , - . 
AA Aa 
b •• OJ .1.-b bb L ?""? .. ,."'.. .... _-='---'""""'--
•'" 
• l 
, . 
, , 
Tntin 9110 
Tesli/iO 
.,'" 
• l 
, . 
, , 
Train 9/10 
Test 1/10 
Fig. 2. The steps of the MDR methodology [23]. 
<a , ..,. 
, , 
Train 9110 
Tail/tO 
The Multifactor Dimensionality Reduction (MDR) [23] is 
a data mining strategy applied to results produced by 
Genome Wide Assocations Strudies (GW AS) aiming to 
provide risk predictive factors of the genomic disease study. 
The method reduces the dimensionality of multilocus 
information, to improve the identification of polymorphism 
combinations associated with disease risk. Efficient data 
mining strategies like the MDR method are of significant 
importance on the way of analyzing the large amount of SNP 
data produced by GWAS. 
The MDR method is nonparametric (no hypothesis about 
the value of a statistical parameter is made), is model-free (it 
assumes no particular inheritance model) [23], and is 
directly applicable to case-control studies like the RA and 
MS study of our work. The method allows the classification 
and prediction of discrete clinical endpoints using attributes 
constructed from multi locus genotype data. The approach is 
used once a multilocus attribute is constructed which is 
conceptual similar to that of a naiVe Bayes classifier. 
The MDR methodology applied in the RA and MS cases 
of our work aims to reducing the genotype predictor factors 
from n-dimensions to one-dimension by pooling the 
multilocus genotypes into high-risk and low-risk. The 
produced one-dimensional multilocus genotype is evaluated 
for its ability to predict the RA and MS disease status 
through cross validation and permutation tests. The process 
applied in our work is presented in Fig. 2. 
As depicted in Fig. 2 for each combination of 
polymorph isms the case versus controls ratios are calculated. 
The high-risk and low-risk factors are calculated using the 
ratio of cases versus controls; if the ratio is greater than 1.0 
then the multilocus combination is indicated as high-risk, 
else is indicated as low-risk (step 3 in Fig. 2). In order to 
provide results with the smallest prediction error the cases 
and controls subjects must be balanced. The prediction 
errors are computed using a cross-validation procedure (step 
4 in Fig. 2). The computation is implemeted by randomly 
division of the cases and control subjects to 10 equal parts. 
The MDR data mining strategy is developed for each 
possible 9/10 of the subjects which is the training part of the 
method. The predictions of the RA & MS disease status are 
made to the rest 1110 of the subject. Actually a 10-fold cross­
validation procedure is performed by changing divisions and 
the final prediction errors are averaged. 
A computational challenge arising by the application of 
the MDR method concerns the astronomical number of all 
possible combinations produced by thousands of SNPs 
involved in the GWA study [24]. To avoid such a challenge 
carefull selection of the genetic variables that are included in 
the analysis is required. The application of MDR in genome 
scans with hundreds to thousands of SNPs, requires the 
development of appropriate machine learning strategies to 
optimize the selection of polymorph isms to be modeled, 
since an exhaustive search of all possible combinations is 
impossible. 
In the RA and MS study of our work the HumanCNV370-
Duo BeadChip is used for the proccessing of the RA and MS 
cases. In order to exhibit the computational challenge of our 
study and the highly cpu-intensive calculations of the MDR 
method the following case is presented: 
a. Current computer processing power can perform 50 
MDR runs & SNP evaluations per second. 
b. The evalutation time of the 318000 SNPs contained in 
the beadarray is estimated to 318000/50= 6360 secs= 
1.76 Hours. 
c. All possible 2-locus combinations are: (318000 2)= 
5*1010. Exhaustive evaluations of all 2-locus 
combinations require: 5*1010/50=1 *109= 32 years 
which is not a suitable time for the proposed work. 
Thus, machine learning strategies are applied in the 
selection of the polymorphisms aiming to reduce the sizing 
of the computations without loss of critical information. 
The evaluation of the MDR strategy in our work is 
performed using the confusion matrix by computing the type 
I and type II error rates [25]. The confusion matrix is 
constructed for the MDR classifier as depicted in Table I. 
TABLE I 
CONFUSION MATRIX CONSTRUCTED BY AN MDR CLASSIFIER (25) 
Risk group by Djsease group 
MDR classifier 
Case Control 
High TP' fPC 
Low FNb TNd 
"True positive = the number of correctly classified individuals within case group. 
bFalse negative = the number of incorrectly classified individuals within case group. 
e False positive = the number of incorrectly classified individuals within control group. 
dTrue negative =the number of correctly classified individuals within control group. 
The classification accuracy (CA), balanced accuracy (BA) 
and weighted-balanced accuracy (wBA) measurements are 
computed according to the following formulas[25] 
respectively: 
The purpose of the wBA measurements aim to improve 
the MDR performance at the RA and MS studies by 
extending the capabilities of the classical confusion matrix 
measurements. 
IV. CONCLUSIONS 
Up to date associations already exist concerning genetic 
variants and complex diseases, but at the same time not all of 
them can lead to assessment about the causal gene or variant. 
One known characteristic of associated with disease genetic 
variants is that they have small to modest effect sizes [1,5]. 
As it happens for environmental influences, the probability 
for a person to develop a complex disease during his life is 
not depended on a single genetic risk factor, but each variant 
could only modulate that probability [5]. As far as the 
described methodology is concerned we are alerted, 
concerning the statistical analysis approach that best fits our 
research and willing to incorporate additional or alternative 
approaches. 
Assessing and characterizing the risk or protection, 
association between a genetic variant and a disease is crucial 
for making progress in understanding the etiology, as well as 
for developing interventions based on genetic information, to 
improve patient's life [15]. 
References 
[ I) K.A Frazer, S.S. Murray, N.1. Schork and E.1. Topol, "Human 
genetic variation and its contribution to complex traits", Nature 
Reviews Genetics, vol. 10, pp. 241-251,2009. 
(2) G. Lettre and 1.D. Rioux, "Autoimmune diseases: insights from 
genome-wide association studies", Human Molecular Genetics, vol. 
17, no. R2, pp.R I16-R I21, 2008. 
(3) L.A Hindorff, H.A. Junkins, P.N. Hall, 1.P. Mehta, and TA Manolio. 
A Catalog of Published Genome-Wide Association Studies. Available: 
www.genome.gov/gwastudies. Accessed [17 June 2010), 
(4) M.M. lies, "What Can Genome-Wide Association Studies Tell Us 
about the Genetics of Common Disease", PLoS Genet., vol. 4, no. 2: 
e33, doi: I 0.1371/joumal.pgen.0040033, 2008. 
(5) R.1. Xavier and J.D. Rioux, "Genome-wide association studies: a new 
window into immune-mediated diseases", Nature Reviews 
Immunology vol. 8, pp. 631-643,2008. 
(6) V. Dinu, H. Zhao and P.L. Miller, "Integrating domain knowledge 
with statistical and data mining methods for high-density genomic 
SNP disease association analysis", Journal oj Biomedical Informatics, 
vol. 40, no 6, pp. 750-776, 2007. 
(7) L.W. Hahn, M.D. Ritchie and 1.H. Moore, "Multi factor 
dimensionality reduction software for detecting gene-gene and gene­
environment interactions", Bioinjormatics, vol. 19, no. 3, 2003. 
(8) AA. Motsinger, S.L. Lee, G. Mellick and M.D. Ritchie, "GPNN: 
power studies and applications of a neural network method for 
detecting gene-gene interactions in studies of human diseases", BMC 
Bioinjormatics, vol. 7, no. 39,2006. 
[9) A Bureau, J. Dupuis, K. Falls, K.L. Lunetta, B. Hayward, T. P. Keith 
and P. Van Eerdewegh, "Identifying SNPs predictive of phenotype 
using random forests, Genet Epidemiol., vol. 28, pp. 171-182,2005. 
[10) Y. Yoon, J. Song, S.H. Hong and J.Q. Kim, "Analysis of mUltiple 
single nucleotide polymorph isms of candidate genes related to 
coronary heart disease susceptibility by using support vector 
machines, Clin. Chem. Lab. Med., vol. 41, no. 4, pp. 529-534, 2003. 
[ I I) Y. Goletsis, T. P. Exarchos, N. Giannakeas, D. I. Fotiadis, "Intelligent 
patient profiling for diagnosis, staging and treatment selection in colon 
cancer", BIBE 2008, 2008. 
(12) G. Potamias, L. Koumakis, A. Kanterakis, V. Moustakis, D. 
Kafetzopoulos, M. Tsiknakis, "Artificial Intelligence and Innovations 
2007: from Theory to Applications." Eds. C. Boukis, L. 
Pnevmatikakis, L. Polymenakos, Boston: Springer, pp. \37-145,2007. 
[\3) J. Pittman, E. Huang, 1. Nevins and M. West, "Prediction tree models 
in c1inico-genomics," Bulletin oj the International Statistical Institute, 
vol. 54, pp. 76-79, 2003. 
[14) S. Purcell, B. Neale, K. Todd-Brown, L. Thomas, M.A.R. Ferreira, D. 
Bender, J. Maller, P. Sklar, P.I.W. de Bakker, M.1. Daly and P.c. 
Sham, "PLINK: A Tool Set for Whole-Genome Association and 
Population-Based Linkage Analyses", Am J Hum Genet. vol. 81, no: 
3,pp. 559-575,2007. 
[15) 1. Little, J. P.T Higgins, 1.P.A loannidis, D. Moher, F. Gagnon et aI., 
"Strengthening the Reporting of Genetic Association Studies 
(STREGA)-An extention of the STROBE statement", PLoS Med, vol. 
6, no. 2: e1000022. doi:10.\371/joumal.pmed.1000022, 2009. 
[16) R.M. Plenge, C. Cotsapas, L. Davies, AL. Price, et aI., "Two 
independent alleles at 6q23 associated with risk of rheumatoid 
arthritis", Nat Genet, vol. 39, pp. 1477-1482,2007. 
[17) J.E. Wigginton, D.1. Cutler and G.R. Abecasis, "A Note on Exact 
Tests of Hardy-Weinberg Equilibrium", Am. J. Hum. Genet., vol. 76, 
no. 5,pp. 887-893,2005. 
[18) TA Manolio and F.S. Collins, "The HapMap and Genome-Wide 
Association Studies in Diagnosis and Therapy", Annual Review oj 
Medicine, vol. 60, pp. 443-456, 2009. 
[19) T.A Pearson and T.A. Manolio, "How to Interpret a Genome-wide 
Association Study", JAMA, vol. 299, no. I I, pp. 1335-1344,2008. 
[20) B. Devlin, K. Roeder and L. Wasserman, "Genomic Control, a New 
Approach to Genetic-Based Association Studies", Theoretical 
Population Biology, vol. 60, no 3, pp. 155-166,2001. 
[21) C. Tian, P.K. Gregersen and M.F. Seldin, "Accounting for ancenstry: 
population substructure and genome wide association studies", Human 
Molecular Genetics, vol. 17, no.R2, pp.R 143-RI50, 2008. 
[22) P.-N. Tan, M. Steinbach, V. Kumar, "Introduction to Data Mining 
(First Edition)." Boston: Addison-Wesley Longman Publishing Co., 
2005. 
[23) M.D. Ritchie, L.W. Hahn, N. Roodi, L.R. Bailey, W.D. Dupont, F.F. 
ParI and 1.H. Moore, "Multifactor dimensionality reduction reveals 
high-order interactions among estrogen metabolism genes in sporadic 
breast cancer," Am. J. Hum. Genet., vol. 69, pp. \38-147,2001. 
[24) J.H. Moore, F.W. Asselbergs and S.M. Williams, "Bioinformatics 
challenges for genome-wide association studies," Bioinformatics, vol. 
26(4), pp. 445-455, 2010. 
[25) J. Namkungl, K. Kim, S. Vi, W. Chung, M.-S. Kwonl and T Park, 
"New evaluation measures for multi factor dimensionality reduction 
classifiers in gene-gene interaction analysis," Bioinformatics, vol. 
25(3), pp. 338-345, 2009. 
