20 I 0 International Conference On Computer Design And Appliations (ICCDA 2010) 
Application of Multidimensional Association Rules in Personal Financial Services 
Guoling Liu, He Jiang, Runian Geng 
School of Information Science and Technology 
Shandong Institute of Light Industry 
linan, China 
maindollar@126.com 
Abstract-To better solve the complexity and diversity in 
personal financial services, we propose a kind of personal 
financial recommendation system based on association rules. 
The system makes use of the customers' financial information 
to generate data cube, and then generates the recommendation 
set by multi-dimensional association rule mining. We also 
propose the concept of recommendation weight and use it for 
recommending process. As a result of the introduction of 
multidimensional association rules and the recommendation 
weight, the recommendations of new service and import 
service are reasonably managed. This recommendation system 
is more intelligent, efficient and personalized in solving the 
complexity and diversity in customizing financial service 
effectively. 
Keywords-recommendation; data mining; multidimensional 
association rules 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Each time a bank account is requested, the bank 
accounting system drops a line on the access log. The access 
log is basically a relation (or table) with a few columns that 
records what is regarded as important information about 
personal financial services. These data can then be mined for 
different purposes. 
Data mining can be known as a knowledge discovery 
process in databases [1]. Database mining is the automated 
process of extracting interesting and previously unknown 
patterns and correlations from large databases. Association 
rule mining is the process of discovering items, which tend 
to occur together in transactions based on some kind of rules 
[2-5]. With the rapid development of knowledge discovery 
technologies, data warehouse and association rule mining are 
applied to recommendation system gradually [6]. 
The recommendation system is more and more important. 
Many commerce webs have introduced the personalized 
recommendation system. Very little work has been done in 
mmmg association rules in personal financial 
recommendation. The customers can not understand many 
financial products in the short period of time and are difficult 
to judge whether the products are right for them. Therefore, 
customers need an assistant that can recommend financial 
products to the customers according to customers own 
interests or satisfactory. 
In this paper we presented recommendation system based 
on multidimensional association rules for personal financial 
services. The system makes use of customer registered 
Huijie Li 
Communications and Technology department 
linan Municipal Public Security Bureau 
linan, China 
Li? huijie@126.com 
information and customer consumption to generate 
recommendation set by multidimensional association rules 
mining. The system provides distinct financial plans for 
various customers, thus improves the personalization of the 
recommendation. 
II. MULTIDIMENSIONAL ASSOCIA nON RULES 
RECOMMENDATION SYSTEM STRUCTURE 
A. the description of Personalized Recommendation 
System 
Personalized recommendation is that the bank 
department recommended the information and financial 
products, in which the customers are interested according to 
the customers interests' characteristics and users' financial 
service history [7, 8]. With the incomes higher and financial 
product type fast-growing, customers need to spend a lot of 
time to find a suitable product. This process of browsing a lot 
of irrelevant information and product will undoubtedly loss 
consumers who are drowned in the problem of information 
overload. Personalized recommendation system is an 
advanced business intelligence platform based on massive 
data mining and assists bank department providing 
completely personalized decision support and information 
services for their customers' financing. Personal financial 
management recommendation system would recommend 
financial products to customers, auto-complete the process of 
individual selecting financial products and meet customer's 
individual requirements. 
Recommendation process is based on the following 
factors. 
• Customers job type 
• Customer age 
• Customers' history financial products 
• The characteristics of financial products 
B. Recommendation System Structure 
The whole recommendation system includes data transfer, 
data cube generating, multi-dimensional association rule 
mining, recommendation set generating and filtering. The 
system recommendation structure is shown as Fig. I. 
The data about customers and financial products are 
probably saved in several databases or relational tables. After 
the data sources are cleaned and transferred, they loaded into 
data warehouse. Data cube effectively integrates the 
customer registration, historical data and location 
978-1-4244-7164-5/$26.00 © 2010 IEEE V5-500 Volume 5 
2010 International Conference On Computer Design And Appliations (ICCDA 2010) 
information by multidimensional data model. Frequent 
predicate sets are mined using improved Apriori? Cube 
algorithm. Multidimensional association rules are generated 
from frequent predicate sets. According to the customer 
registration information and historical information, the types 
of financial products that customers may need are generated. 
Appropriate financial products are generated to customers 
using recommendation degree. 
data resource data resource 
Figure I. Recommendation system structure. 
III. KEY TECHNOLOGIES IN THE RECOMMENOA nON 
SYSTEM'S IMPLEMENTATION 
A. Data Cube Generation 
The data cube is used to represent data along some 
measure of interest. Although called a "cube", it can be 2-
dimensional, 3-dimensional, or higher-dimensional. Each 
dimension represents some attribute in the database and the 
cells in the data cube represent the measure of interest. For 
example, they could contain a count for the number of times 
that attribute combination occurs in the database, or the 
minimum, maximum, sum or average value of some attribute. 
In data warehouse, data are organized in the form of the 
data cube by multidimensional data model. Data cube 
defined by the dimension and fact. Dimension is the point of 
data observation. Dimension is related to the property, but 
the fact is a specific data. From the point of specific data 
view (dimension), there are several descriptions that is called 
dimension level. The fact table contains the keywords 
relevant with dimension table and the measurement of the 
fact [9]. 
According to the mining task given by the user, the data 
cube is generated from the data warehouse. Association rules 
mining could be carried out in data cube. As a result of total 
or partly materialization storage of data cube in data 
warehouse beforehand, a lot of association rules mining time 
is saved and the efficiency of mining is improve obviously. 
For a given task of association rules' mining whose 
content involves dI . . .  dn dimension, the dimension levels of 
various dimensions are determined according to users' 
mining requirements and then data cube is generated from 
data warehouse. In data cube, every dimension includes 
Idil+ 1 numbers. The value of Idil is the number of different 
dimension members which are in i dimension. In the di 
dimension, prior Idil rows stand for different dimension 
member in di dimension respectively. The last row sores the 
dimension member called SUM. The total of corresponding 
dimension is recorded in the last row. This existence of total 
is convenient to support degree computation of association 
rules significantly. The frequency of corresponding 
dimension is recorded as count in the grid of data cube. So a 
task for association rules mining that involves dl. . .  dn 
dimension corresponds to a n-dimension data cube (dI . . .  dn I 
count). In data cube (dI. . .  dn I count), dI. . .  dn is the 
dimension of data cube and count is the fact value of data 
cube. 
In personal financial services database there are several 
dimensions such as income type (1-T), investment direction 
(I-D), currency type (C-T), job (1) and age. Age is 
discretized as LA (18-30), MA (31-50) and HA (51-80). 
Table 2 shows the various customers' financial services data 
cube information. I-Tn, I-Dn and C-Tn note the special 
financial product of certain customer. For example, when 
customer base's job is JI and age is MA, they select I-TI, 1-
D2 and C-T3. Table I shows personal financial services data 
cube. 
TABLE I PERSONAL FINANCIAL SERVICES DATA CUBE 
Income Investment Cnrrency Job Age 
Type Direction Type 
I-Tl I-DI C-T3 Jl MA 
I-Tl 1-02 C-T4 JI MA 
I-TI 1-02 C-T6 J2 MA 
I-T2 I-D3 C-TI J3 LA 
I-T2 1-04 C-TI J5 HA 
I-T3 1-02 C-T4 J2 MA 
I-T3 1-04 C-T2 J5 HA 
... ... ... ... ... 
B. Multidimensional A ssociation Rules Mining 
In data mining, association rule learning is a popular and 
well researched method for discovering interesting relations 
between variables in large databases. For example, the rule 
{onions, potatoes} => {beef} found in the sales data of a 
supermarket would indicate that if a customer buys onions 
and potatoes together, he or she is likely to also buy beef [1 0, 
11]. 
Association rules identifY collections of data attributes 
that are statistically related in the underlying data. An 
association rule is of the form X => Y where X and Y are 
V5-501 Volume 5 
20 I 0 International Coriference On Computer Design And Appliations (ICCDA 2010) 
disjoint conjunctions of attribute-value pairs. The confidence 
of the rule is the conditional probability of Y given X, 
Pr(YIX), and the support of the rule is the prior probability of 
X and Y, Pr(X and Y). Here probability is taken to be the 
observed frequency in the data set. The traditional 
association rule mining problem can be described as follows. 
Given a database of transactions, a minimal confidence 
threshold and a minimal support threshold, find all 
association rules whose confidence and support are above 
the corresponding thresholds. 
According to the number of dimensions, association rule 
could be divided two classes: single dimension association 
rule and multi dimension association rule. Single dimension 
association rule only involves one attribute data. Multi 
dimension association rule could process multi attribute data. 
Multidimensional association rule includes two or more 
predicate; for instance, Age (X. "30?35") /\ Occupation(X, 
"teacher") =>buys(X, "educational savings"). 
Multidimensional association mmmg from data 
warehouse has become a knowledge discovery paradigm 
because it provides more specific conditional settings for 
target mining data, thus can generate rules more close to 
users' needs [12, l3]. 
In the multi-dimensional association rule mining 
algorithm, this system uses improved Apriori _Cube 
algorithm. The improved algorithm is more able to meet the 
actual needs. In the certain hierarchy dimension the strong 
association rules may not be mined sometimes, so it is 
necessary to drill up or drill down the data cube in the 
mining process. After the dimension hierarchy is adjusted, it 
is suitable for mining. 
Algorithm: improved Apriori_ Cube 
Input: dl... dn, count// n-D data cube, 
Minsup Ilminimum support degree 
Output: frequent predicate set L 
(1) Initialization: L=<I>; Ll =<1>; k= 1; j=O; 
(2) All members of every dimension di (i=I ... n) 
constitute the candidate set of l-predicate set, denoted by CI 
(3) L=gen_frenquent (Cl) 
(4) Count the max_support and min_support frequent 1-
predicate set in every dimension 
(5) For i=1 to n do II Compare minsup to and 
max_support and min_support size 
CDllImprove the dimension hierarchy 
IF max_support<minsup THEN 
Drill up i-dimension 
® II Reduce the dimension hierarchy 
IF min_support>minsup THEN 
Drill down the i-dimension 
® j=j+ 1 II j>O adjust the dimension hierarchy 
(6) IF j>O THEN 
CD j=O 
® repeat (2)(3)(4)(5) 
(7) L=L ULl 
(8) WHILE (k ::S;n) and ( Lk *) DO 
CD Ck=gen _ candidate(Lk -1) 
® L= gen_frequent (Ck) 
® L=LULk 
® k=k+1 
(9) Output L 
C. the Concept of Recommendation Weight 
Recommendation weight /1 indicates the priority of the 
personal financial product. The recommendation weight is 
larger, the recommendation degree is larger. We can increase 
the recommendation weight in order to emphasize the 
financial product. For new financial products or important 
financial products we can allocate a bigger recommendation 
weight to achieve preferential recommendation. The default 
of /1 is I. It can be modify by consumers. 
We can multiply the recommendation weight and the 
confidence of every financial product to get the 
recommendation degree RD: RD=/1 *Cr. 
D. Recommendation Algorithm 
In accordance with the frequent predicate sets generated 
by improved Apriori_ Cube algorithm, we could find all 
association rules set ARS that satisfied the minimum support 
and minimum confidence. After then, we can find all 
association rule sets that are supported by consume, that is, 
all the products in the left of association rule were selected 
by consumer. In accordance with consumer's job and age, 
we could find all the products P that are not selected by 
consumer but are predicted by ARS. At last, we sort the 
products in P according to the confidence in ARS and the 
recommendation weight of financial product. 
Product recommendation algorithm is as the following: 
Input: product list II selected by consumer 
N IIMaximum of recommendation products 
Output: Recommendation products list 
(1) Call CreateProductList function Ilgenerate 
recommendation products list; 
(2) If the number of recommendation product> 
Maximum of recommendation N 
(3) select prior N product for recommendation; 
(4) else if he number of recommendation product>O 
(5) select all products in recommendation list for 
recommendation; 
(6) else 
(7) Reduce the number of products selected by 
consume and Call CreateProductList function until the 
recommendation financial product is null or the financial 
product selected by consumer is null. 
(8) Multiply the recommendation weight /1 and the 
confidence Cr of financial product in ARS. 
(9) Sort the recommendation financial products by the 
recommendation degree RD. 
IV. EXPERIMENTS AND ANALYSIS 
Recommendation system based on multidimensional 
association rule full considers the job, age and istory 
financial services of the consumer to provide the 
personalized method. The following is an example. By 
improved Apriori_ Cube algorithm we get frequent 5-
predicate set as shown in Table II. 
V5-502 Volume 5 
20 I 0 International Conference On Computer Design And Appliations (ICCDA 2010) 
TABLE II. FREQUENT 5-PREDICA TE SET 
We can set minimum confidence to 80%. The following 
are association rules by L5. 
I-T2, 1-02, 11, MA => C-Tl confidence=83% 
1- Frequent 5-predicate Set L5 T2, 1-03, 
J2 , MA => C-
T2 {I-TL I-DL C-T3, JI, MA} 
{1-T6, I-D5, C-Tl, J2, MA} 
{1-T2, 1-02, C-T3, ]3, HA} 
{1-T3, I-D2, C-TI, J2, MA} 
{I-TL I-D5, C-T3, ]3, LA} 
confidence=86% 
I-T2, 1-02, J2, HA => C-T3 confidence=82% 
If consumer A and B have selected financial product 1-
T2, 1-02, we can recommend consumer A product C-Tl in 
accordance with his job (11) and age (MA), but recommend 
consumer B product C-T3 in accordance with his job (12) 
and age (HA). 
We can seen from the above example that the financial 
products recommended by income type (I-T), investment 
direction (I-D), currency type (C-T), job (1) and age 
dimensions are accurate and can meet the customer's 
financial features. 
V. CONCLUSIONS 
In this paper, we designed a novel and efficient personal 
financial services system based on multidimensional 
association rules and proposed the concept Jl as 
recommendation weight. This system can provide more 
exact effective recommendation products in accordance with 
customer own characteristics. The system makes use of 
registered information and history financial products 
information of customer to generate recommendation set by 
multidimensional association rules mining. The 
recommendation weight contributes to preferential 
recommendation and can emphasize new and import 
financial services. 
This paper only discussed the positive association rules 
mining from multi dimensions. Negative association rule is 
another aspect of data mining and different from positive 
association rules. In future work, we will discuss the effect of 
negative multidimensional association rules in personalized 
recommendation. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
This work is partly supported by the Project of Shandong 
Province Higher Educational Science and Technology 
Program (No. J09LG32 and No. J09LG07). 
REFERENCES 
[I] Usama Fayyad, Gregory Piatetsky-Shapiro, Padhraic Smyth, The 
KDD process for extracting useful knowledge from volumes of data, 
Communications of the ACM, v.39 n.ll, p.27-34, Nov. 1996 
[2] R Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A Swami. Mining association rules 
between sets of items in large databases. Proceedings of the ACM 
SIGMOD Conference on Management of data, p.p. 207-216, May 
1993. 
[3] R Agrawal, and R Srikant Fast algorithms for mining association 
rules in large database. Technical Report FJ9839, IBM Almaden 
Research Center, San Jose, CA, Jun. 1994. 
[4] R Agrawal, and R Srikant Fast algorithms for mining association 
rules. In Proc. 1994 Int Conf Very Large Databases(VLDB'94), Sep. 
1994. 
[5] J S. Park, M. S. Chen, and P. S. Yu. An effective hash-based 
algorithm for mining association rules. Proceedings of ACM 
SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, p.p. 
175-186, May 1995. 
[6] Jianyuan Van, Li Zhang, Fang Zhao, Wenting Liu, Kai Li, 
"Multidimensional Association Analysis of Web Users' Access Path 
for Website Design and Promotion," fskd, vol. 2, pp.103-107, 2009 
Sixth International Conference on Fuzzy Systems and Knowledge 
Discovery, 2009 
[7] Tao Peng, Wendong Wang, XiangYang Gong, Ye Tian, XiaoGang 
Yang, Jian Ma, "A Graph Indexing Approach for Content-Based 
Recommendation System," mmit, vol. I, pp.93-97, 2010 Second 
International Conference on MultiMedia and Information Technology, 
2010 
[8] Gao Huming, Li Weili, "A Hotel Recommendation System Based on 
Collaborative Filtering and Rankboost Algorithm," mmit, vol. I, 
pp.317-320, 2010 Second International Conference on MultiMedia 
and Information Technology, 2010 
[9] M. Kamber, J. Han, J Chang. Metarule-guided mining of multi­
dimensional association rules using data cubes. In Proc. 1997 Int 
Conf. Khowledge Discovery and Data Mining(KDD'97), p.p. 207-
210, Aug. 1997 
[10] J, Han and Y Fu. Discovery of multiple-level association rules from 
large databases. In Proc. 1995 Int Conf Very Large 
Databases(VLDB'95), p.p. 402-431, Sep. 1995. 
[II] Neelu Khare, Neeru Adlakha, K.R. Pardasani, "An Algorithm for 
Mining Multidimensional Association Rules Using Boolean Matrix," 
itc, pp.95-99, 2010 International Conference on Recent Trends in 
Information, Telecommunication and Computing, 2010 
[12] Lei Zhang, Mei Qiao, Degan Zhang, "Research on Multi-dimensional 
Association Rules Mining in Distributed Environments Based on 
Advanced SQL Query," fskd, vol. 2, pp.108-112, 2009 Sixth 
International Conference on Fuzzy Systems and Knowledge 
Discovery, 2009 
[13] Yajing Shan, Li Gao, Pingping Wang, Zhiye Sun, "New Multi­
dimensional Association Rule in Mobile-Learning System," wism, 
pp.153-157, 2009 International Conference on Web Information 
Systems and Mining, 2009 
V5-503 Volume 5 
