SICE Annual Conference 2010 
August 18-21, 2010, The Grand Hotel, Taipei, Taiwan 
 
 
¥400 © 2010 SICE 
1
Time Related Association Rules Mining with
Attributes Accumulation Mechanism Applied to
Large-scale Traf?c System
Xiaoli Wang, Shingo Mabu, Huiyu Zhou, Kotaro Hirasawa
Graduate School of Information, Production and System, Waseda University
2-7 Hibikino, Wakamatsu-ku, Kitakyushu, Fukuoka, 808-0135, Japan
Email:WangXiaoli@akane.waseda.jp, mabu@aoni.waseda.jp, zhy836@toki.waseda.jp, hirasawa@waseda.jp
Abstract—In this paper, a data mining method using Genetic
Network Programming (GNP) will be introduced and its effec-
tiveness and ef?ciency will be studied using an existing large-scale
traf?c simulation system. The results of simulation will also be
described.
Keywords—GNP; Data Mining; Attribute Accumulation; Traf?c
Prediction; Evolution; Classi?cation;.
I. INTRODUCTION
With the deteriorating traf?c status in the expanding modern
metropolis, individual traf?c management systems, sometimes
known as car navigation systems, are widely used to shorten
the traveling time for drivers. In a complicated and dynamic
system, the effectiveness of navigation depends heavily on
how accurately the information is provided. Therefore, if
the traf?c conditions like vehicle ?ows and congestions can
be accurately predicted and described, the effectiveness of
navigation systems will be improved.
Here, a proposed method of association rule mining using
Genetic Network Programming (also known as GNP) is ap-
plied to a large-scale road network to verify its performance.
GNP is a kind of algorithm which represents solutions with
directed-graph structures, which here is used to extract rules
from the large database alongside with rule accumulation
mechanism so that as many rules as possible can be extracted
from the database with decent ef?ciency.
In this paper, GNP is used in the dynamic case, where the
database concerns not only the data of one certain time point,
but a long time sequence, or we can say that the database is
time-related. GNP is used to generate candidate rules from a
large number time-related attributes.
Here, we apply Genetical Network Programming for ex-
tracting association rules from traf?c systems and use them
for the prediction of traf?cs of the road networks. In order
to achieve realistic results, the algorithm is also applied to
the simulator, where the traf?c of Kitakyushu is used for
simulations.
II. ALGORITHM DESCRIPTION
The whole algorithm is divided into to two phase, Data
Mining and Prediction (also called Classi?ciation). GNP is
applied to the ?rst phase, where a time-related GNP data
mining is used to obtain rules which are exploited in the latter
phase to make prediction. The algorithm in the two phases
will be introduced in details, respectively.
A. Data Mining
Data Mining[1], the analytical approach to draw useful
information from large sets of data, is widely used in various
?elds. Generally, data mining is used to ?nd relationships be-
tween several attributes. Its goal is to extract information from
data sets, which can be used later for other applications. In
other words, the knowledge obtained could be in many forms,
which would be the form of relationships of traf?c volumes
among different roads and time in the traf?c prediction.
One of the greatest advantages of using data mining to
obtain rules over other methods (like analyzing the geometric
and topological relationships of road networks) is that data
mining is a relatively ef?cient method to obtain as many rules
as possible. Here, Association Rule Mining is used to extract
knowledge from the database, whose major task is to ?nd the
relationships among attributes, or hidden correlations among
attributes. Relationships between data sets can be represented
as association rules. An association rule has the form of
(X => Y ), where X represents antecedent and Y represents
consequent. This means those data satisfying X is likely to
satisfy Y with certain con?dence.
When data mining is applied to large scale traf?c systems,
the relationship is usually expressed in the form of rules like
”if Section A(t=3) has High volume and Section B(t=4) has
High volume, then Section C(t=6) has High volume”. These
rules are called Association Rules, and can be used to make
prediction thereafter[2].
When considering the evolutionary computation, there are
several existing methods like Genetic Algorithm[3] and Ge-
netic Programming[4]. In GA case, a rule is represented as
PR0001/10/0000-2637- 2637 -
2the chromosome of an individual, which makes it hard to have
a complete picture of the real relationships in the problem.
In Genetic Programming, the tree structure is used which
improves the representation of rules, but it thus suffer from
the loose structure and bloating problem.
Genetic Network Programming (GNP)[5] used in the pro-
posed method is an extension of Genetic Algorithm. In GNP,
individuals are expressed as directed graphs, which have strong
expressive power while keeping a compact program, where all
the resources can be reused without the bloating problem as
the number of nodes is ?xed. This is the reason why Genetic
Network Programming is used for the optimization of large
scale systems[5].
Also, due to the nature of the problem, time-related asso-
ciation rule mining is needed to improve the ef?ciency and
effectiveness of the method.
B. Genetic Network Programming
Fig.1 shows the basic structure of GNP. Principally GNP
is composed of three kinds of nodes: Start Node, Judgment
Nodes and Processing Nodes. In the case of Judgment Nodes,
if-then logics are used to decide the ?ow of agents, while
Processing Nodes carry a set of actions. Before the start-up,
all the nodes are pre-de?ned and stored.
Fig. 1. Basic Structure of GNP Individual
In the Chrosome of a GNP node, its ID, type (Start Node,
Processing Node, Judgment Node), connection and direction
to other nodes are de?ned, as GNP uses the directed-graph to
represent its individual.
Fig.2 is the structure of a single rule individual included
in GNP. For example: if Section A(t=0) has High volume and
Section B(t=3) has High volume, then Section C(t=4) has High
volume.
The most important part of GNP data mining applied to
traf?c system is that it concerns only those rules with single
consequent part, as is shown in the previous example as C(t=4)
is high.
When the algorithm has found enough rules for a certain
consequent, it moves to the next. This has proven to be a most
trust-worthy method, but it remains relatively time-consuming.
In the proposed method, the algorithm considers not only the
Fig. 2. Basic Structure of GNP Individual
attributes, but also the time delays, as the database is not a
transaction-based but a time-related database.
For all the rules extracted using data mining method,
Support, Con?dence, Chi-Square are used to decide whether
the rule is accepted as a useful rule and stored in the pool.
In the Case of X => Y , support is de?ned as the number
of data satisfying X divided by the total number of data. For
example if in a database of 100 tuples, the data that satisfy X
is 20, then we can say that the support is 20/100 = 0.2. Support
actually measures how widely the rule extracted can apply to
the database, or how frequently the situation described by X
is seen in the data set.
Con?dence is the conditional probability of P(Y??X). For
example, if in the previously mentioned database, those data
who satisfy both X and Y is 15, it can be said that the
con?dence is 15/20 = 0.75. Con?dence measures how effective
the rule is, that is, how con?dently as you can deduce the
conclusion if you have the clues.
Chi-square measures how independent X is from Y . In
other words, all rules have to satisfy these three measures,
so as to be recognized as an important or effective rule.
C. Rule Accumulation Mechanism
In order to extract rules from the large database, Rule
Accumulation Mechanism is also needed, which involves the
Small Rule Pool and Big Rule Pool(also known as SRP and
BRP). Every round, new rules are obtained and their overlap
is checked in SRP, and SRP is also compared with BRP.
All the attributes that are used in the rules extracted are
counted and the top v percent attributes are viewed as impor-
tant attributes and have high likelihood to be used for the next
time.
In other words, when a good rule is extracted, ?rstly it will
be compared with the rules in the SRP. If it is new, then it
will be stored in SRP and later the SRP will be compared with
BRP. Those never extracted in the past will be considered as
a new one.
- 2638 -
3D. Prediction
Prediction is the ?nal process of applying rules extracted to
make the prediction of future traf?c ?ows, which is evaluated
by the accuracy of prediction. Here, accuracy is de?ned by the
number of correct predictions divided by all the records that
can be predicted. That is to say, all the unpredictable records
are ignored.
III. LARGE-SCALE TRAFFIC SIMULATION
A. Solutions
A new simulator is needed which can simulate the large
scale traf?c system with the complicated traf?c control like
traf?c lights control and if possible traf?c accidents. Here a
software named Sound4U is applied to our simulator.
Also the program to do the long prediction is also devel-
oped.
B. Map Con?guration
In the Sound4U software, users can pick up the roads of
different levels like national, prefectural, urban and so on,
traf?c control like traf?c lights control, and the vehicle ?ows
from the national map using a ?lter. Also the vehicle types can
be set up as different car groups impose different in?uences
on the traf?c.
In the simulation, the map of Kitakyushu in Fukuoka
Prefecture is chosen as the basic traf?c network. The road
network in this paper especially focuses on the area near
Kurosaki, one of the central part of Kitakyushu city containing
more than 3,500 roads, already a complicated system. In this
paper, only the national, prefectural and urban roads are picked
up, considering the ef?ciency.
The map is shown in Fig 3,
Fig. 3. Map for Simulation
Considering the fact that most of roads are two-way, the
map actually contain more than 7,000 sections. Generally, it
takes 10 to 15 minutes for a car to move from one side of the
map to the other side.
The whole simulation time is two hours, where the traf?c
volume will be recorded for every minute. Also the scan time
is 1 second, by which the simulation is updated. Generally
speaking, the shorter scan time will lead to higher simulation
accuracy.
From observation of the real traf?c lights, the time of
switching different traf?c lights is set at 30 to 50 seconds
according to the location. Generally speaking, the roads in the
urban areas tend to have shorter interval between switching,
while in rural areas longer time interval is set.
C. OD Setting
Here a concept has to be explained. OD, or Origin-
Destination is used to de?ne the traf?c ?ow. As can be seen
from the name, OD means a traf?c ?ow that runs from Origin
to Destination.
In the simulator OD is de?ned, traf?c control is set up and
route selection algorithm is set for each vehicle group in the
simulator, and the simulator will do the rest.
The vehicles are generated from Origin/Destination (OD)
points, which are put around the boundaries of the whole
map. A traf?c ?ow should be generated from one OD point
towards another. This is called an origin/destination (OD) pair,
representing a traf?c ?ow.
10 Destination points are set for every Origin point out of
20 points, so there are 200 OD pairs in all.
When setting up the ODs, three patterns are used. One
is Rush Hour pattern, where two peaks of traf?c ?ows are
set. Another is Standard Distribution and the third is Total
Randomized.
It is possible to set different groups of vehicles (as they
introduce different in?uences on the traf?c system), but only
one kind is used here for simplicity.
D. Density Discretization
Although what we want is the prediction of traf?c situations,
the ?rst step is to discretize the simulation results, as the GNP-
based data mining method is principally designed to deal with
boolean values rather than continuous values.
Also, the traf?c density rather than the traf?c volume should
be used for measuring the traf?c situation due to the fact
that the traf?c volume does not re?ect how busy a street is,
especially considering the fact that many roads have different
lane numbers and lengths. Usually the longer the road is, and
the more lanes it has, the more vehicles it can hold, which
means it is busier than some other roads.
Therefore after the simulation, ?rst the traf?c density of
each section is calculated, where it it is divided into Low,
Middle and High situations by certain thresholds. Actually, the
following traf?c density of every time unit (here one minute)
can be obtained.
D = Num/(L ? C)
where,
D is the density of the section;
- 2639 -
4Num is the number of cars remaining in the section;
L is the length of the section;
C is the capacity of the section
And here is how the traf?c density is discretized into High,
Middle and Low.
Fig. 4. Discretization of Traf?c
E. Section Reduction
Even for the large scale system, 7,000 sections is a good
number and a heavy burden on the traf?c prediction. Thus, one
of the crucial steps is to pick up the most important sections,
called ”major sections”.
As the proposed method classi?es the sections by Low,
Middle and High for every period, we can give them certain
scores, which can be used for ranking the sections. Only the
top 500 sections are picked up using the ranking of sections.
As there are Low, Middle and High for every section, the
number of attributes actually becomes 1,500 with time steps
of 120(two hours by 1 minute).
IV. SIMULATION RESULTS
The Simulation Condition is set up as follows.
A map near Kurosaki
20 OD, 200 OD pairs
3,500 roads, 7,000 sections
Number of judgment nodes 100
Number of processing nodes 10
Number of attributes 1500
Number of time units 120
Number of generations per Round 50
Sub Attribute Set Size for Attribute Accumulation 100
After obtaining the association rules for the traf?cs of the
road networks, a classi?cation method is used to make the
prediction on the traf?cs and the results are analyzed.
The general ?ow of simulation is shown in Fig.5,
There are two database involved, of which one is called
Training Database, the other Testing Database. The GNP-
based algorithm extracts rules from the Training Database (or,
the algorithm would learn from the Training Database).
Fig. 5. General Flow of Simulation
50 rules are required for each class, but sometimes it just
turn out to be impossible to ?nd enough rules for certain
attributes.
These rules would be used to make prediction later, and
prediction results would be compared with Testing Database
to see how accurate the prediction is.
Here, Accuracy is de?ned by the number of correct predic-
tion divided by all the records that can be predicted.
A. Probabilistic Route Finding
In the simulations, vehicles generated from the Origin
follow certain rules when ?nding its way to the Destination.
This is also named ”route-?nding”, as vehicles decide which
road to take among lots of choices.
With Probabilistic Route Finding, vehicles decide which
route to take considering the traveling time when they depart
from Origin. They will stick with their choice after leaving
Origin. The probability of choosing one road is shown as
below.
P (i) =
exp(uVi)?
j?J exp(uVi)
, (1)
P (i) is the probability for vehicle to take the ith route
V i is the time consumption for taking the ith route
In the simulations, the route-selection is controlled by a
parameter called Logit Parameter u.
When u approaches in?nity, the algorithm turns into greedy
algorithm When u approaches zero, the route for a car is totally
randomly determined
The X axis is the prediction time step, while Y is the
prediction accuracy in Fig.6.
Generally, the accuracy falls with the increase of prediction
steps and the more probabilistic, the less accurate. In the
probabilistic case, the accuracy drops as the process become
more random, or as u becomes smaller.
V. CONCLUSIONS
An decent accuracy of 80 percent using 7000 sections map
has proved that the proposed algorithm can be applied to a
large-scale realistic traf?c system with reliability.
There still exist some problems to be solved, like a small
number of usable rules when extending the prediction time,
- 2640 -
5Fig. 6. Prediction Accuracy under Different Parameters
or the relatively low ef?ciency, although the Attribute Accu-
mulation and Section Reduction have been already exploited
to improve it.
In the future, should try to systematically analyze the per-
formance of scenario under many different kinds of situations
like very big traf?c volumes. Other route-?nding methods are
also expected to be employed.
REFERENCES
[1] C. Zhang and S. Zhang. Association Rule Mining: models and algorithms,
Springer, 2002.
[2] K. Shimada, K. Hirasawa and J. Hu. ”Genetic Network Programming
with Acquisition Mechanisms of Association Rules”, Journal of Advanced
Computational Intelligence and Intelligent Informatics, Vol. 10, No.1
pp.102-111, 2006.
[3] D. E. Goldberg, Genetic Algorithm in search, optimization and machine
learning, Addison Wesley, 1989.
[4] J. R. Koza, Genetic Programminjg, on the programming of computers by
means of natural selection, Cambridge, Mass., MIT Press, 1992.
[5] S. Mabu, K. Hirasawa and J.Hu, ”A Graph-Based Evolutionary Algo-
rithm: Genetic Network Programming (GNP) and Its Extension Using
Reinforcement Learning”, Evolutionary Computation, MIT press, Vol. 15,
No. 3, pp.369-398, 2007.
- 2641 -
