Notice of Retraction 
 
 
 
 
 
After careful and considered review of the content of this paper by a duly 
constituted expert committee, this paper has been found to be in violation of 
IEEE's Publication Principles. 
 
We hereby retract the content of this paper. Reasonable effort should be made to 
remove all past references to this paper. 
 
The presenting author of this paper has the option to appeal this decision by 
contacting TPII@ieee.org. 
Study on Customer Retention under Dynamic Markets
Zeling Wang
Laboratory of Supply Chain and Industry Engineering
School of Economics and Management
Tongji University
Shanghai, P.R.China, 200092
wangzeling66@gmail.com
Xinghui Lei 1,2
1Graduate School
2School of Economics and Management
Tongji University
Shanghai, P.R.China, 200092
leixh@online.sh.cn
Abstract—Customer retention is increasingly pressing issue in
today’s competitive commercial arena. This is relevant and
important for sales and services related industries. Practicing
customer relationship management (CRM) demands the ability
to explore the strategy of customer retention. Despite existing
the importance of customer retention to CRM, there is a
lack of a comprehensive and effective approach to realize
it under dynamic markets. Identifying customer segments
and tracking their change over time, mining the pattern
of customer segmentation are important applications for
companies who need to understand what their customers
expect from them now and in the future. This is significant
for companies who operate in dynamic markets better fit the
needs and wants of customers who, driven by new innovations
and competing products. In this paper, we present a model for
customer retention which accounts for the dynamics of today’s
markets. Our study provides a new road-map to guide future
research concerning the application of data mining techniques
in customer retention under dynamic markets.
Keywords–data mining; association rule mining; customer
relationship management; customer retention
I. INTRODUCTION
Customer retention is an important strategy in modern
business to keep a company’s customers and to retain their
revenue contribution. Customer retention is the driving force
behind customer relationship management (CRM), relation-
ship marketing and loyalty marketing.
Studies across a number of industries have revealed that the
cost of retaining an existing customer is only about 10% of
the cost of acquiring a new customer, so customer retention
is essential for a company.
Customer retention is the central concern for CRM. As
such, traditionally, elements of customer retention include
one-to-one marketing, loyalty programs and complaints man-
agement. One-to-one marketing refers to personalized mar-
keting campaigns which are supported by analyzing, detect-
ing and predicting changes in customer behaviors [1]. Loyalty
programs involve campaigns or supporting activities which
aim at maintaining a long term relationship with customers.
References [2-3] are concerned with the discovery of interest-
ing association relationships, which are above an interesting
threshold, hidden in databases. Selected association rules can
be used to build a model for predicting the value of a future
customer.
The application of data mining tools in customer retention
is an emerging trend in the global economy. Analyzing and
understanding customer behaviours and characteristics is the
foundation of the development of a competitive customer
retention strategy, so as to acquire and retain potential
customers and maximize customer value. Appropriate data
mining tools, which are good at extracting and identifying
useful information and knowledge from enormous customer
databases, are one of the best supporting tools for making
different customer retention decisions. As such, the applica-
tion of data mining techniques in customer retention is worth
pursuing in a customer-centric economy.
When we hear about customer retention, we firstly think
about customer segmentation. the segmentation approach is
to a large extent goal driven and static. That means the data
that is used has been collected with the assumption that it
is ultimately relevant for segmentation. Data or attributes not
considered to be relevant are dropped from the analytical
process early on to make cluster analysis feasible and aid
the interpretation of detected clusters which is essential to
form meaningful segments. The danger of this approach
is that potentially relevant features are ignored meaning
certain segments may not be detected. The approach is also
static, which means that once segments have been established
change in those segments is not monitored because of the
practical repercussions like regularly running expensive sur-
veys, etc. This results in missing important trends, threats and
opportunities because segments can change in several ways.
New groups can appear, disappear, merge, move, shrink or
grow [4]. Secondly, we think about association rules among
customers, the discovery of interesting changes based on the
static customer segmentation.
In manufacturing and business processes, with rising living
standards and advances in production capacity, the traditional
static customer retention mode can no longer effectively meet
the needs of customers, who are looking for uniqueness,
innovation and novelty. However, there is a lack of a com-
prehensive and effective approach to realize it under dynamic
markets.
2010 Second International Conference on Networks Security, Wireless Communications and Trusted Computing
978-0-7695-4011-5/10 $26.00 © 2010 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/NSWCTC.2010.279
5154
In this paper, we use clustering and frequent itemset
discovery for detecting interesting pattern in data on different
time period. We first propose a method to improve the
reliability of customer segmentation, then detect interesting
changes in a customer segment, by analysing the support
of the itemset along the time axis. The starting point of
such an approach is as follows: A timestamped data set is
partitioned into intervals along the time axis. Frequent itemset
discovery is then applied to each of these subsets. This yields
sequences of support for each itemset, which can be analyzed
further. They allow us to make statements about the future
development of a customer segment and thus provide a basis
for customer retention.
II. RELATED WORK
A. Customer Segmentation
Customer segmentation is the process of dividing cus-
tomers into homogeneous groups on the basis of common
attributes. In most application customer segmentation is ac-
complished by defining numerical attributes, which describe
a customer’s value based on economical and market consid-
erations. Cluster algorithms are then commonly employed in
order to discover groups of customers with similar attribute
values. Segmentation methods based on clustering require a
user to carefully select the used attributes by hand in a tedious
process. Since the number of used attributes is rather low,
commonly only two or three, the analysis of segment change
can still be done manually. This might be the reason why to
our knowledge no automated approach has been published
yet.
Some approaches have been proposed to analyse changes
in customer behavior, for instance in retail marketing [5],
in an insurance company [6], These approaches typically
compare two sets of rules generated from datasets of two
different periods.
B. Association Rules
In the area of association rules, the discovery of interesting
changes has been studied by several authors [7-8]. Associa-
tion rule mining and other methods are often used to discover
the patterns of domains. For instance, Xu et al. [9] employed
association rule mining to find the interesting patterns with
the help of intuitionistic fuzzy set and ?-cuts in supplier do-
main. In the meantime, in order to express the conscientious
and careful of academy, authors of reference [9] declared that
as a poster paper included in the proceedings, is not the final
manuscript but the mistaken submission.
C. Selection Attribute for Customer Segmentation
Every customer database has many attributes usually,
attribute(feature) selection will be important to customer
segmentation. Its merit lies in the fact that each attribute
selected corresponds uniquely to a instance which could
become a target of interest itself. There are four strategies for
the ranking of attribute selection: individual ranking, group
ranking, forward selection (FS), and backward elimination
(BE) [10] .
The individual ranking scheme is the simplest to process-
ing. It only considers the individual feature rankings. This
happens to be one of the most popular as it is computationally
most efficient. It requires an amount of order of O(M),
assuming that there are originally M features. However, it
fails to take into account the inter-feature redundancy that
abound in data. For example, it is very possible that the
two highest-rank individual features share a great degree of
similarity. As a result, the selection of both features would
amount to a wastage of resources.
This problem can be solved if the exhaustive group ranking
is adopted. The relevance/redundancy of all the features in a
group is examined collectively. This of course leads to a truly
optimal decision. While the group ranking strategy is the only
means to yield a truly optimal selection, it is computationally
prohibitive, if not impossible. More exactly, in order to find
the best combination of features, an exhaustive search would
entail each of the 2M possible combinations. So, it is rarely
adopted in practice because of its demanding computational
cost.
It is necessary to strike a compromise between these two
extreme approaches. In this sense, one effective solution is
the consecutive search approach, which falls into two main
categories: FS and BE [11].
• Forward Selection: Such a search usually begins at an
empty feature set, and iteratively adds features based on
how much added value it brings to the existing subset. A
key drawback is that once a feature is admitted, it cannot
be discarded. The selection pool is recursively updated
as follows: S ?? S+, where S and S+ denote the sub-
sets before and after the update. It recursively evaluates
every candidate feature to be added into the current set
on a one-by-one basis. The evaluation considers fully
the inter-feature dependence with respect to the current
subset.
• Backward Elimination: This approach begins with the
full feature set and then eliminate those that do not
make a significant contribution, i.e. those whose absence
causes the smallest negative impact in terms of the net
information loss. A key drawback is that once a feature
is eliminated, it cannot be reselected in the future. The
selection pool is recursively updated as follows: S ??
S?, where S and S? denote the subsets before and
after the update. It recursively evaluate every features in
the current set to be eliminated on a one-by-one basis.
Such an approach takes into account the inter-feature
dependence existing in the current subset.
Forward selection is usually effective when a relative small
number of features (from a much larger feature set) are to
5165
[
[
[
Fig. 1. With inter-feature redundancy
be selected and retained. Backward elimination is usually
preferred when relative few features are to be eliminated from
the original feature set.
Under the Gaussian distribution, the mutual information is
given in equation 1,
I(x|y) = U(y) =
1
2
log2(|Ry |) +
M
2
log2(2?e) (1)
where U(y) denotes entropy, and Ry denotes the covariance
matrix.
For illustration purpose, we assume that the dimension of
the feature is M = 3 and our objective is to select one or two
features from the original three features (A, B, and C) which
represented by x1, x2, and x3 (shown in Fig. 1). We set this
example based on FS. Moreover, the distribution of data is
assumed to be Gaussian, assuming Gaussian distribution with
a different covariance matrix:?
? 500 420 200420 450 0
200 0 400
?
?
Mathematically, the inter-feature redundancy can be effec-
tively dealt with by the entropy formula in Equation 1. For
this example, y=[x1,x2]T . Thus,
Ry =
(
500 420
420 450
)
this leads to
U(x1, x2) = log2(|Ry|) +
2
2
log2(2?e) (2)
The area-A represents the entropy of x1 (= 6.53), area-B
the entropy of x2 (= 6.45) and area-C the entropy of x3 (=
6.37)( Entropy of A, B, and C are under the condition of no
redundancy). It follows that the entropy of [x1, x2] = 11.88,
entropy of [x1,x3] = 12.74, and entropy of [x2, x3] = 12.82.
The total entropy for [x1,x2, x3] is 16.37.
A has substantial overlaps with B and C, as depicted by
Fig. 1. As previously discussed, A will be chosen in the first
round. In the second round of selection, C will be a better
choice to pair up with A, even though U(C) < U(B). So, the
pair to be selected is {A, C}. In this paper , we will choose
FS as the method to select and optimize the attributes. This
is a key step for customer segmentation.
D. Association Rules for Pattern under Time Period
The achieved segmentation can be discovered by associa-
tion rule mining to find the pattern. In this paper, we will find
the pattern according to the time period. The support can be
employed to check the tendency. For example, suppose that
we may discover that the support of the itemset Age> 60
and Satisfaction=Yes has a upward trend. This, in turn, can be
interpreted as that the group of all satisfied customers over 60
steadily gets bigger. So the change pattern can be discovered
in time. customer retention strategy can be adjusted according
to the changed pattern.
III. PROPOSED MODEL
The proposed model can be shown in Fig. 2 based on the
dynamic markets.
IV. CONCLUSIONS
Customer retention is and increasingly pressing issue in
today’s competitive commercial arena. This is relevant and
important for sales and services related industries. Practicing
CRM demands the ability to explore the strategy of customer
retention. Compared to the static customer retention model,
this paper proposed a novel customer retention model through
identifying customer segments and tracking their change over
time, mining the pattern of customer segmentation are impor-
tant application for enterprise who need to understand what
their customers expect from them now and in the future. This
is significant for enterprise which operate in dynamic markets
better fit the needs and wants of customers who, driven by
new innovations and competing products. Our study provides
a new road-map to guide future research concerning the
application of data mining techniques in customer retention
under dynamic markets.
REFERENCES
[1] T. Brijs, G. Swinnen, K. Vanhoof and G. Wets, ”Building an association
rules framework to improve product assortment decisions,” Data Mining
and Knowledge Discovery, vol. 8, pp. 7–23, 2004.
[2] K. Wang, S. Zhou, Q. Yang and J. M. S. Yeung, “Mining customer
value: From association rules to direct marketing,” Data Mining and
Knowledge Discovery, vol. 11, pp. 58–79, 2005.
[3] B. G. Matthew and C. Randell, “Creating a competitive advantage in
global trade,” Global Data Mining, 2006.
[4] M. Buettcher, M. Spott, D. Nauck and R. Kruse, “Mining changing
customer segmentation in dynamic markets,” Expert systems with Ap-
plications, vol. 36, pp. 155–164, 2009.
[5] M. C. Chen, A. L. Chiu and H. H. Chang, “Mining changes in customer
behavior in retail marketing,” Expert Systems with Applications, vol. 28,
pp. 773–781, 2005.
[6] J. K. Kim, H. S. Song, T. S. Kim and H. K. Kim, “Detecting the change
of customer behavior based on decision tree analysis,” Expert Systems,
vol. 22, pp. 193–205, 2005.
[7] R. Agrawal and G. Psaila, “Active data mining,” Proceedings of the First
International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, pp.
3–8, 1995.
5176
)HDWXUHDWWULEXWH6HOHFWLRQ)RUZDUG6HOHFWLRQ
&KRRVH'LVWDQFH)XQFWLRQ'[\ 
'DWDEDVH
                 &ODVVLILFDWLRQ
            &XVWRPHU6HJPHQWDWLRQ
                &KDQJHG3DWWHUQ
     $VVRFLDWLRQUXOHPLQLQJZLWKWLPHSHULRG
3DWWHUQ$GMXVW WKH6WUDWHJ\RI
FXVWRPHU
UHWHQWLRQ   
Fig. 2. Customer retention Model under dynamic markets
[8] B. Liu, W. Hsu, H. S. Han and Y. Xia, “Mining changes for reallife
applications,” Proceedings of the Seventh International Conference on
Data Warehousing and Knowledge Discovery, pp. 337–346, 2005.
[9] X. Xu, J. Lin and D. M. Xu, “Mining pattern of supplier with the
methodology of domain-driven data mining,” Proeedings of IEEE the
Seventeenth International Conference on Fuzzy Systems, pp. 1925–
1930, 2009.
[10] D. koller and M. Sahami, “Toward optimal feature selection,” Proceed-
ings of the Thirteenth International Conference on Machine Learning,
pp. 284–292, 1996.
[11] X. Xu, K. Wang, J. Lin and W. M. Ma, “Improving the reliability of
case-based reasoning systems,” International Journal of Computational
Intelligence Systems, in press.
5187
