Extracting Sentiment of Fund Investors 
from Small Talk on the Web 
Bo Wang, XianFeng Liu, Zhong Pu 
Economic Management School 
 SouthWest Petroleum University 
Chengdu City, China 
Braidwang@163.com  
 
 
Abstract—Reviews on Web can help small investors make 
decision in selecting funds. The size of fund reviews is smaller 
than other products, which proposes a challenge to extract 
sentiment by using statistic methods. We develop a 
methodology to deal with this problem by using association 
rule to select seed words and introducing new outside 
resources to improve the traditional PMI performance. The 
result shows that this methodology is effective. 
Keywords- sentiment extraction, lexicon, PMI,  outside 
resource, data mining 
I.  INTRODUCTION  
With development of information technology, web 
finance information has significant impact on investor’s 
decision making. Since 1997, funds have experienced rapidly 
expanding and became an important part in Chinese stock 
market. The open-end fund in value exceeds 300 billion 
dollars and has almost 200 million investors. As a kind of 
competitive investment tool, fund can provides customer its 
specialist finance service. To individuals, which fund should 
be invested is an important selection and reviews on web can 
help them.  
Talks issued by small investors have unique language 
characteristic, which means that individuals incline to use 
informal language to issue their ideas about funds, such as 
fashion words, slang and some symbols. It is difficulty to 
identify their sentiment only depending on the standard 
dictionary. At the same time, reviews to fund are smaller in 
scale comparing with other products, so extracting sentiment 
from them becomes more difficult since the statistic methods 
require enough samples. In this research, we propose a 
hybrid method for the extraction of sentiment word from 
small corpus based on PMI algorithm and additional outside 
language resources, such as the word frequency list and a 
sentiment lexicon of HOWNET. The task is decomposed 
into the following main subtasks: 
• Identify sentiment words from a talk corpus to build 
a seed list. 
• Expand sentiment lexicon from new talk corpus.  
• Improve system performance by using outside 
language resources.  
This paper focuses on the all 3 subtasks and our 
contributions are as follows: 
• We introduced association rule miner to find 
sentiment words for our seed lexicon’s building, 
which was used to find product features [1].  
• We proposed a new idea to improve PMI 
performance in very small corpus by introducing 
outside language resources.  
•  The relationship also has been studied between seed 
words, SM results [10], lexicon words and outside 
frequency list.  
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows:      
Section II introduces the related work, Section III presents our 
method and the system’s framework, Section IV shows the 
results of experiment and compares different method’s 
performance and Section V draws our conclusion. 
II. RELATED WORK  
This paper concentrates on reviews’ evaluation. Popesuc 
has decomposed it into several subtasks [2]: (1) Mining 
product features. (2) Mining customers’ viewpoint to the 
feature. (3) Sentiment analysis for viewpoints. (4) Ranking 
viewpoints according to their importance. Sentiment analysis 
is used to judge the polarity of the review and provides a 
useful reference to customer. Most previous research on 
sentiment-based classification has been at least partially 
knowledge-based. Some work focuses on classifying the 
semantic orientation of individual words, using linguistic 
heuristics or a pre-selected set of seed words which is similar 
with us in subtask one [3] [4].  
To provide more flexibility to different language 
environment of the lexicon, Turney used algorithm called 
PMI-IR to expand lexicon by measuring the similarity of 
words [9]. Gamon continued Turney’s work by propose SO 
and SM method [10]. Yuen pointed out that the performance 
of PMI algorithm depend on the great size of corpus [8].  
In finance product reviews, Sanjiv develop a 
methodology for extracting small investor sentiment from 
stock message boards. He comprises different classifier 
algorithms couple together by voting scheme. The lexicon he 
used is a hand-picked collection of finance words, such as 
2010 International Conference on Computational and Information Sciences
978-0-7695-4270-6/10 $26.00 © 2010 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/ICCIS.2010.298
1208
150
594
bull, bear, buy, pressure, etc [5]. Tetlock quantitatively 
measure the interactions between the media and the stock 
market using daily content from a popular Wall Street 
Journal column. He analyzes the polarity of newspaper data 
by counting the sentiment words from the Harvard 
psychosocial dictionary [6]. As we described earlier, formal 
words coming from dictionary do not suit to informal 
language environment completely in Internet. Hand-picked 
lexicon can deal this situation well but it has a drawback that 
old lexicon can not be expanded when retrieve new corpus. 
The inability to learn more sentiment words from new 
documents limits its application. 
  Automatically extracting the emotive content of text is a 
complex problem. There are two basic techniques proposed 
for discovering terms in corpora: Symbolic approaches and 
statistical approaches, which exploit the fact that the words 
composing a term tend to be found close to each other and 
reoccurring [2] [7]. Minqing Hu use association rule mining 
to find all frequent item sets in statistical meaning [1]. 
Inspired by the work of Minqing Hu, we mined sentiment 
words by using association rule to release the pressure of 
hand pick job. Seed words with high minimum support also 
have more possibility to find co-occurrence words by PMI 
algorithm in small corpus at the next step, which is important 
to the lexicon expanding. Outside resources are introduced 
afterward to further improve system’s performance. 
III. PROPOSED TECHNIQUES  
Fig. 1 gives an architectural overview for our sentiment 
extraction system. The system performs its function in five 
steps. 
  
 
Figure 1.  Sentiment extraction system of fund reviews 
A. Reviews crawling and words segmentation 
Three corpus (F0, F1 and F2) are downloaded from 
website and segmented with the software ICTCLAS 
(Institute of Computing Technology, Chinese Lexical 
Analysis System), which was programmed by Chinese 
Academy of Sciences.  
B. Mining for seed words by using association rule miner 
The miner is based on Apriori algorithm [9] which 
generally works in two steps. At the first, it searches all 
frequent itemsets from documents that satisfy a user 
specified minimum support. Secondly, it generates rules 
from the discovered frequent itemsets. For our task, we only 
need the step one to find candidate sentiment words. While 
Minqing Hu set his minimum support as 1%, we make this 
value equal to 0.2%. The reason is that sentiment words have 
lower repetition rate in our corpus.  
Sentiment words are picked by hand from frequent 
itemsets produced by Apriori miner and result in seed 
sentiment lexicons I1. 
C. Mining for sentiment words with SM 
We use SM algorithm to extract new sentiment words 
from review corpus F1. The PMI between features and seed 
words are calculated, then candidate words are automatically 
picked up according to our threshold setting [10], which 
results in expand lexicon I2.  
D. Minging for sentiment words with HOWNET  
HOWNET is a kind of Chinese semantic resource, which 
is similar with WordNet. We use its sentiment lexicon to 
derive sentiment words from corpus F1 by simply comparing 
each other. It is the fact that a smaller corpus easily leads to 
the low recall of PMI algorithm because many low frequency 
words in the test set barely associate with the seed words. So 
we use this outside resource to strengthen opinion words 
extraction.  
E. Frequency lists filtering 
The scale of fund reviews limits the accuracy of PMI 
methods which is based on statistic theory. The distribution 
of candidate words in our experiment may not be the same as 
that in general situation. We use a frequency lists based on 
very large corpus to rectify this problem. Candidate words 
will be filtered by their frequency in the lists according to the 
assumption that sentiment words incline to have smaller 
words frequency. 
IV. EXPERIMENTS  
A. Data  
We conducted experiments on fund reviews from website 
http://ifund.jrj.com.cn, which is an important financial forum 
in China. Three fund reviews have been collected to build 
corpus F0 since June, 2007 to June 2010 which comprises 
17,842 units. We use another two fund reviews from 2009 to 
1209595
2010 to form corpus F1 and corpus F2, each with 1,309 and 
1,387 units. Comparing with colossal corpora like Turney’s 
hundred-billion word corpus, our one is very small and only 
has words not exceed 200 thousand(TABLE II). We can not 
get more materials because of the short history of Chinese 
stock market. So how to extract sentiment from this small 
corpus propose a new challenge.  
Total 545 words are extracted from F0 by employing 
association rule miner. There are 32 negative and 8 positive   
words tagged by human. To prepare for performance 
evaluation, 500 negative (36%) and 85 positive (6%) reviews 
also are pre-labeled from corpus F2 by hand, which means 
58% of reviews in corpus F2 is neutral in sentiment. We 
found it is general that almost all fund reviews in total 
inclines to negative and the difference is only the degree. For 
describing clearly, the experiment below concentrates on 
negative words extraction and the technique can be easily 
extended to positive words processing. 
B. Methods of performance evaluation 
To evaluate system performance, two indexes of 
precision (P) and recall (R) are used as (1) and (2). Table I 
shows parameters’ meaning. 
BA
AP
+
=                                      (1) 
CA
AR
+
=                                      (2) 
C. Results  
Table III gives all the precision and recall results. We 
evaluated results at each step of our algorithm. In the table, 
column 2 lists each technique. Column 3 represents the 
number of word in lexicon at each step. In experiment, we 
make parameter selection as column 4. Columns 5 and 6 give 
the precision and recall of sentiment extraction from corpus 
F2.  
At the first step, based on seed lexicon’s 32 words and 
the small corpus with 200 thousand words, the system gets 
the result of 83% precision and 49% in recall. Comparing 
with Yuen 75% precision and 31% recall in one year data 
(3.4 million words), we think using Apriori method to mine 
words is effective. In step two, we can see the lexicon is 
expanded to 227 words which lead to 7% improvement in 
recall at the cost of 11% precision decline. In step three, 
features of corpus F1 are compared with the sentiment 
lexicon to draw another sentiment words.  At the last step, 
we use a frequency lists (tokenization and POS tagging by 
NEUCSP) based on Internet large corpus to filter new words 
expanded at step2 and 3. It obviously improves system 
precision at relatively lower cost of recall and can satisfy 
basic requirements in practical use.  
 
 
TABLE I.  PARAMETER MEANING  
 Real negative 
review  
Not real 
negative review 
Negative reviews extracted by 
system 
A B 
Omitting reviews by system C D 
TABLE II.  THE DIFFERENCE OF CORPUS SIZE  
Experimenter Corpus size 
Turney Hundred billion words  
Yuen R W M 34 million words 
Our 200 thousand words 
TABLE III.  RECALL AND PRECISION AT EACH STEP OF THE SYSTEM  
 Technique No. of 
words 
in 
lexicon 
Parameters 
value 
Precision Recall 
1 Seed lexicon 32 Minim support 
>0.2% 
83% 49% 
2 Expanding 
lexicon with 
PMI  
227 PMI<0 72% 56% 
3 Expanding 
lexicon with 
HOWNET 
374  60% 67% 
4 Frequency 
lists filtering 
291 For I2, threshold 
=66% of words 
For I3, threshold  of 
frequency <100 
73% 61% 
V. CONCLUSIONS   
In this paper, we proposed a technique for sentiment 
extraction from a small corpus of stock fund reviews. To 
compensate the weakness of small corpus, outside resources 
are introduced for improving PMI performance. Our 
objective is to provide investors an automatic tool to analyze 
general inclination to different funds. Our experimental 
results indicate that the proposed technique is effective. In 
our future work, we plan to further improve this technique to 
get better performance. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
Thanks for the support to this work from the science 
foundation of Southwest Petroleum University. 
REFERENCES 
[1] M. Hu and B. Liu, “Mining Opinion Features in Customer Reviews”, 
in AAAI 2004, San Jose, California, July 2004, pp. 755-760. 
[2] A-M Popescu and O. Etzioni, “Extracting Product Features and 
Opinions from Reviews”, in Proceedings of HLT-EMNLP 2005, 
Vancouver, October 2005, pp. 339-346. 
1210596
[3] B. Pang, L. Lee and S. Vaithy anathan, “Thumbs up? Sentiment 
Classification Using Machine Learning Techniques”, in Proceedings 
of EMNLP 2002, Philadelphia, 2002, pp. 79-86. 
[4] P. D. Turney, “Thumbs up or Thumbs Down? Semantic Orientation 
Applied to Unsupervised Classification of Reviews”, in Proceeding of 
Association for Computational Linguistics 40th Anniversary Meeting, 
Philadelphia, 2002, pp. 417-424. 
[5] R. D. Sanjiv and M. Y. Chen, “Yahoo! For Amazon: Sentiment 
Extraction from Small Talk on the Web”, Management Since, vol. 53, 
pp. 1375-1388, September 2007. 
[6] P. C. Tetlock, “Giving content to investor sentiment: The role of 
media in the stock market”, The Journal of Finance, vol. 62, no. 3, pp. 
1139-1168, June 2007. 
[7] C. Jacquemin and D. Bourigault, “Term extraction and automatic 
indexing”, in Handbook of Computational Linguistics, R. Mitkov , 
Eds. London: Oxford University Press, 2001, pp. 599-616. 
[8] R. W. M. Yuen, et al, “Morpheme-based Derivation of Bipolar 
Semantic Orientation of Chinese Words”, in Proceedings of 
COLING-04, Geneva, Switzerland, pp. 1008-1014. 
[9] P. D. Turney, “Mining the Web for synonyms: PMI-IR versus LSA 
on TOEFL”, in Proceedings of the Twelfth European Conference on 
Machine Learning, Freiburg, Germany, 2001, pp. 491-502. 
[10] M. Gamon and A. Aue, “Automatic idenrification of sentiment 
vocabulary: exploiting low associationwith known sentiment terms”, 
in ACL Workshop on Feature Engineering for Machine Learning in 
NLP, Michigan, USA, June 2005, pp. 57-64. 
 
1211597
