An Improvement in Apriori algorithm Using Profit And Quantity  
Parvinder S. Sandhu 
Professor (Deptt. Of CSE) 
Rayat & Bahra Institute of 
Engg. & Bio-Tech., 
Mohali, India  
  
Dalvinder S. Dhaliwal 
Asst Prof. (Deptt. Of CSE) 
RIMIT Institute of            
Engg. & Tech.,   
Mandi Gobindgarh, India 
S. N. Panda        
Director & Professor,  
Regional Institute of        
Mgmt. & Tech.,  
Mandi Gobindgarh, India 
 
Atul Bisht 
Lecturer (Deptt. Of CSE) 
Rayat & Bahra Institute of 
Engg. & Bio-Tech., 
Mohali, India  
 
 
 
 
 
Abstract— Association rule mining has been an area of active 
research in the field of knowledge discovery and numerous 
algorithms have been developed to this end. Of late, data 
mining researchers have improved upon the quality of 
association rule mining for business development by 
incorporating the influential factors like value (utility), 
quantity of items sold (weight) and more, for the mining of 
association patterns. In this paper, we propose an efficient 
approach based on weight factor and utility for effectual 
mining of significant association rules. Initially, the proposed 
approach makes use of the traditional Apriori algorithm to 
generate a set of association rules from a database. The 
proposed approach exploits the anti-monotone property of the 
Apriori algorithm, which states that for a k-itemset to be 
frequent all (k-1) subsets of this itemset also have to be 
frequent. Subsequently, the set of association rules mined are 
subjected to weightage (W-gain) and utility (U-gain) 
constraints, and for every association rule mined, a combined 
Utility Weighted Score (UW-Score) is computed. Ultimately, 
we determine a subset of valuable association rules based on 
the UW-Score computed. The experimental results 
demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach in 
generating high utility association rules that can be lucratively 
applied for business development.    
Keywords- Association Rule Mining (ARM), Frequent itemset, 
Utility, Weightage, Apriori, Utility gain (U-gain), Weighted gain 
(W-gain), Utility factor (U-factor), Utility Weighted Score (UW-
score). 
 
I.  INTRODUCTION 
Due to the wide availability of huge amounts of data and 
imminent need for turning such data into useful information 
and knowledge, data mining has attracted a great deal of 
attention in the information industry in recent years  [1]. 
Data mining is an important part of the process of 
Knowledge Discovery in Databases (KDD) [22]. The 
Knowledge Discovery in Databases (KDD) is defined as, 
"The non-trivial extraction of implicit, previously unknown, 
and potentially useful information from data" [6]. In general, 
data mining tasks can be classified into two categories: 
Descriptive mining and Predictive mining. Descriptive data 
mining is the description of a set of data in a concise and 
summarized manner and the presentation of the general 
properties of the data. Predictive data mining is the process 
of inferring patterns from data to make predictions [13]. One 
important descriptive data mining technique, Association 
Rule Mining (ARM) introduced by Agarwal et.al. [2], have 
received considerable attention in data mining research and 
applications. More and more computer science scholars and 
researchers, especially those who specialize in the field of 
Knowledge Discovery in Data (KDD), focus and emphasize 
on Association Rule Mining (ARM) [14].  
Association rule mining [2, 3] has been widely used to 
solve data mining problems in numerous applications, 
including financial analysis, the retail industry, and business 
decision-making [4]. The problem with mining association 
rules can be distilled into two steps. The first step involves 
finding all frequent itemsets (or say large itemsets) in 
databases. The next step is the generation of association 
rules. Once the frequent itemsets are found, generating 
association rules is straightforward and can be accomplished 
in linear time [5]. The most important task of traditional 
association rule mining (ARM) is to identify frequent 
itemsets. Traditional ARM algorithms treat all the items 
equally by assuming that the weightage of each item is 
always 1 (item is present) or 0 (item is absent). Obviously, 
it’s unrealistic and will lead to loss of some useful patterns 
[7]. In order to overcome the weakness of the traditional 
association rules mining, utility mining model [9] [10] and 
weighted association rule mining [16] have been proposed.  
Utility based data mining is a new research area 
entranced in all types of utility factors in data mining 
processes and focused at integrating utility considerations in 
data mining tasks [15]. Utility of an item is a subjective term 
dependent on users and applications; it could be measured in 
terms of profit, cost, risk, aesthetic value or other expressions 
of user preference [7]. Given a transaction database, a 
minimum utility threshold, and a utility table, the goal of 
utility mining is to discover all high utility itemsets [12]. The 
profitability of an itemset or the total cost of stocking an 
itemset cannot be determined using the support value alone. 
Thus, in practical terms, utility mining can be more useful 
than traditional association rule mining [12].  
Second International Conference on Computer and Network Technology
978-0-7695-4042-9/10 $26.00 © 2010 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/ICCNT.2010.46
3
In weighted association rule mining (WARM) [16], 
itemsets are no longer simply counted as they appear in a 
transaction. This change of counting mechanism makes it 
necessary to adapt traditional support to weighted support 
[23]. Weighted Association Rules cannot only improve the 
confidence in the rules, but also provide a mechanism to do 
more effective target marketing by identifying or segmenting 
customers based on their potential degree of loyalty or 
volume of purchases [8]. For example, a customer may 
purchase 13 bottles of coke and 6 bags of snacks and another 
may purchase 4 bottles of coke and 1 bag of snacks at a time. 
The conventional association rule approach treats the above 
two transactions in the same manner, which could lead to the 
loss of some vital information [8]. So, Weighted ARM deals 
with the importance of individual items in a database [17, 18, 
19]. For example, some products are more profitable or may 
be under promotion, therefore more interesting as compared 
to others, and hence rules concerning them are of greater 
value [20]. 
Recently, researchers are interested at incorporating both 
the attributes (weightage and utility) for mining of valuable 
association rules. The incorporation, Weighted Utility 
association rule mining (WUARM) can be considered as the 
extension of weighted association rule mining in the sense 
that it considers items weights as their significance in the 
dataset and also deals with the frequency of occurrences of 
items in transactions. Thus, weighted utility association rule 
mining is concerned with both the frequency and 
significance of itemsets and is also helpful in identifying the 
most valuable and high selling items which contribute more 
to the company’s profit [21]. Here, we propose an efficient 
approach based on weight factor and utility for effectual 
mining of high utility association rules. Initially, the 
proposed approach makes use of the traditional Apriori 
algorithm to generate a set of association rules from a 
database. Subsequently, the set of association rules mined are 
subjected to: 1) weightage (W-gain) and 2) utility (U-gain) 
constraints, and for every association rule mined, a combined 
Utility Weighted Score (UW-Score) is computed. 
Ultimately, we determine a subset of valuable weighted and 
utility based association rules on the basis of the UW-score 
computed. The experimental results demonstrate the 
effectiveness of the proposed approach in mining high 
weighted and utility based association rules that can be 
lucratively applied for business development. 
The rest of the paper is organized as follows: The section 
2 explains the measures employed. The proposed approach 
based on profit and quantity for mining utility-oriented 
association rules is given in section 3. Section 4 sums up the 
paper. 
II. MEASURES EMPLOYED  
Association Rule Mining (ARM), one of most commonly 
used descriptive data mining task, is the process of 
discovering a collection of data attributes that are statistically 
related in the underlying data. Apriori has been recognized as 
the most renowned algorithm for ARM. Most algorithms for 
ARM including Apriori, mine potential data patterns chiefly 
based on frequency. The data patterns thus extracted based 
only on frequency would not be of the highest value for 
decision makers in business development. Hence in recent 
times, the incorporation of interestingness, utility and item 
weightage into the standard association rule mining 
algorithms have attracted voluminous research. In the 
proposed approach, we have incorporated two of the 
aforesaid measures together with Apriori for effectual 
mining of association rules. The two attribute measures 
chosen in the proposed research are:                                                      
A. Weightage: 
Generally in a transaction database, attributes comprise 
of numerical assets that gives the actual quantity of the 
attribute (count of the items) involved in the transaction. But 
traditional algorithms like Apriori mine association rules 
from a binary mapped database that only depicts the 
presence of the item in a transaction or not. So, standard 
ARM algorithms possibly overlook the quantitative 
information associated with an attribute, leading to frequent 
but less-weightage rules. In most cases of a customer 
transaction, some of the attributes may be actually more 
weighted in one transaction but it may not have occurred 
frequently in the database. However, these set of attributes 
would be of significant value in the business point of view 
and should have been included in the frequent itemset. 
Hence, the proposed research will consider the weightage 
measure (W-gain) of the individual items in every 
transaction, for mining a subset of most significant rules 
from the set of frequent association rules mined.  
                                                                                
B. Utility: 
The second measure employed in the proposed research 
to improve the quality of ARM is the individual utility 
(Gain) of the attributes. In general, a supermarket is likely to 
consist of attributes (items) that will yield different margins 
of profit. Hence, the rules mined without considering those 
utility values (profit margin) will lead to a probable loss of 
profitable rules.  So, to attain a subset of high utility rules 
from the Apriori mined rules, the proposed approach makes 
use of a utility measure (U-gain).   
A plenty of researches [21, 24, 25, 26] have incorporated 
the weightage and utility measures individually into ARM so 
as to achieve effective rules from large databases. But, 
possibly the incorporation of both the measures together into 
ARM will enable more potential utility-oriented association 
rules. In this research, we incorporate the two measures 
weightage (W-gain) and utility (U-gain) to mine the 
association rules from a transaction database.    
                  
III. PROPOSED METHODOLGY   
Let D be a database consisting of n number of 
transactions T and m number of attributes 
],.....,,[ 21 miiiI =  with positive real number weights  Wi. 
A utility table U comprising of m number of utility values 
Ui, where Ui denotes the profit associated with the i 
attribute. The major steps involved in the proposed approach 
4
for association rule mining based on weightage and utility 
are: 
Step1: Mining of association rules from D using Apriori. 
Step 2: Computation of the measure W-gain.  
Step 3: Computation of the measure U-gain. 
Step 4:. Computation of UW-score from W-gain and U-
gain. 
Step 5: Determination of significant association rules 
based on UW-score.  
A. Association Rule Mining using Apriori 
Initially, association rules are mined from a transaction 
database D with n transactions. The database D is denoted 
as: 
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
=
nT
T
T
D
M 
2
1
 
(1) 
Every transaction T in D comprises of ‘m’ number of 
attributes ],.....,,[ 21 miiiI =  associated with it. Every 
attribute i is represented by weights Wi.  
Apriori, a standard ARM algorithm is used in the 
proposed approach to mine the association rules. Classical 
Apriori generally processes on a binary mapped database BT 
for mining association rules. Hence, the input database D is 
transformed to a binary mapped database BT that consists of 
binary values 0 and 1 denoting the non-existence and 
existence of attributes in the transactions respectively. The 
weights Wi associated with the individual attributes in the 
database D is mapped onto the binary values using the 
following equation: 
?
?
?
??
?=
=
ki
ki
T    0      Wif  1
  T    0  Wif  0
TB  
(2) 
     Subsequently, the binary mapped database TB is given 
as an input to the Apriori algorithm [2] for mining of 
association rules. Generally, the process of association rule 
mining using Apriori is composed of two steps namely, 
• Frequent Itemset Generation: Generate all possible 
sets of attributes that have support value greater 
than a predefined threshold, called minsupport.  
• Association Rule Generation: Generate association 
rules from the generated frequent itemsets that 
have confidence greater than a predefined 
threshold called minconfidence. 
A standard association rule is of the structure: A?B, 
where A (the antecedent) and B (the consequent) are subset 
of items in the binary mapped database, such that, A ?  I, B 
?  I and A ? B=? . The rule A?B is interpreted as “if A 
exists then it is likely that B also co-exists”. The rule A ? B 
holds in the transaction database D with a support S and 
confidence C, if, S% of the transactions in D contains the 
itemsets A and B, and C % of the transactions that contain 
A also contain B. Hence: 
Support (A ? B) = P (AUB) 
 
(3) 
Confidence (A ? B) = P (B|A) 
= support (AUB)/ support (A) 
(4) 
     The pseudo code for the Apriori algorithm is: 
 
 
 
      The apriori algorithm generates a k  number of 
association rules }{ kRRRR ,......,, 21= . The set of 
association rules R  is fed as input to the next phase of the 
proposed research, weightage and utility computation. The 
measures W-gain (weightage) and U-gain (utility) are 
calculated for every attribute present in the k   association 
rules of R . For example, say an association rule iR  of the 
form, [A, B] ?  C, where, A, B and C are the attributes in 
the rule iR , the measures U-gain, W-gain and UW-score are 
calculated for every attribute A, B and C individually.  
Initially, the k  association rules generated are first 
sorted in descending order based on their confidence level.  
The sorted list of association rules is given by 
S = }{ ',......,',' 21 kRRR , RS ? , where conf ( '1R ) ?  
conf ( '2R ) ? conf ( '3R )….. ? conf ( 'kR ). 
B. Computation of W- gain  
From the sorted list S , the first rule '1R  is selected and the 
individual attributes of '1R  are determined. Subsequently, 
the measure W-gain is calculated for every attribute in the 
rule '1R  .  
Definition 1: Item weight (Wi): Item weight is the 
quantitative measure of the attribute contained in the 
transaction database D . Item weight value Wi is a non-
negative integer.  
 
Definition 2: Weighted Gain (W-gain):
 
W-gain is defined as 
the sum of item weights iW  of an attribute contained in 
5
every transaction of the database D as shown in the 
following equation: 
 
W-gain =  ?
=
||
1
T
i
iW  
(5) 
                                                                                                                    
Where, Wi is the item weight of an attribute and T  is 
the number of transactions in the database D.
 
C. Computation of U-gain: 
Similarly, for U-gain computation, the first rule '1R   from 
the sorted list S  is selected and the individual attributes of 
'1R  are determined. Subsequently, the U-gain measure is 
calculated for every individual attribute present in the 
rule '1R , based on the U-factor and the utility value iU of 
the attribute.  
Definition 3: Item Utility (Ui): The Item utility is generally 
defined as the margins of profit associated with that 
particular attribute. It is denoted as iU .  
Definition 4: Utility table U: The utility table U comprises 
of ‘m’ utility values iU  associated with the attributes 
present in the transaction database D. The utility table is 
represented by: 
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
=
m
2
1
U
  M
U
U
U  
(6) 
 Definition 5: Utility factor (U-factor): The utility factor (U-
factor) is a constant that is determined by the sum of the all 
items utility (Ui) contained in the utility table U .It is 
defined as: 
   U-factor =   
?
=
m
i i
U
1
1
 
 
(7) 
     Where, m is the number of attributes present in the 
transaction database. 
 
Definition 6: Utility Gain (U-gain): Utility Gain refers to 
the measure of an attribute’s actual utility based on the U-
factor (as shown in equation 8). 
U-gain= iU  * U-factor 
 
(8) 
      The measure U-gain is computed for every attribute in 
the association rule '1R .  
D. Computation of UW-score from W-gain and U-gain:  
Based on the calculated W-gain and U-gain measures for the 
individual attributes of an association rule, a single 
consolidated value termed UW-score is computed for every 
individual association rule.  
Definition 7: Utility Weighted Score (UW-score): UW-
score is defined as the ratio between the sum of products of 
W-gain and U-gain for every attribute in the association rule 
to the number of attributes present in the rule (as shown in 
equation 9). 
UW-score =  ||
)()(
||
1
R
gainUgainW
R
i
i?
=
???
 
 
(9) 
       Where, R  represents the numbers of attributes in the 
association rule.  
 
The aforesaid processes of W-gain, U-gain and UW-score 
computation are repeated for the rest of the association 
rules '2R  to 'kR present in the sorted list S . Now, all ‘k’ 
number of association rules in the sorted list S  possess a 
UW-Score associated with it. Subsequently, the association 
rules in the sorted list S  are sorted based on the UW-score 
to get 'S = }{ ",......,"," 21 kRRR where UW-score ( "1R ) 
?  UW-score( "2R ) ?  UW-score( "3R )…… ? UW-score 
( "kR ). 
E. Determination of significant association rules based on 
UW-score:  
Finally, from the sorted list 'S , a set of significant weighted 
utility association rules WUR  whose the UW-Score is above 
a predefined threshold are selected. The resultant weighted 
and utility based association rules is given 
by },......,,{ 21 WUlWUWUWU RRRR = , where, lk ?  and 
WUR  ?
'S . 
 
IV. CONCLUSION 
We have proposed an efficient approach based on weight 
factor and utility for effectual mining of high utility 
association rules. Initially, the proposed approach has made 
use of the traditional Apriori algorithm to generate a set of 
association rules from a database. For every association rule 
mined, a combined Utility Weighted Score (UW-Score) is 
computed based on weightage (W-gain) and utility (U-gain) 
constraints. Ultimately, we have determined a subset of 
significant association rules based on the UW-Score 
computed. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] Ali Rajabzadeh Ghatari, Nasibeh Mohamadi, Aida Honarmand, 
Parviz Ahmadi and Nasibeh Mohamadi," Recognizing & Prioritizing 
6
Of Critical Success Factors (CSFs) On Data Mining Algorithm's 
Implementation In Banking Industry: Evidence From Banking 
Business System", In Proceedings of EABR & TLC, Prague, Czech 
Republic, 2009. 
[2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski and A. Swami, “Mining association rules 
between sets of items in large databases”, In proceedings of the 
international Conference on Management of Data, ACM SIGMOD, 
pp. 207–216, Washington, DC, May 1993. 
[3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant, “Fast algorithms for mining association 
rules”, In Proceedings of 20th International Conference on Very 
Large Data Bases, Santiago, Chile, pp. 487–499, September 1994. 
[4] M. S. Chen, J. Han, P.S. Yu, “Data mining: an overview from a 
database perspective”, IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data 
Engineering, vol. 8, no.6, pp. 866–883, 1996. 
[5] Chun-Jung Chu, Vincent S. Tseng and Tyne Liang, "Mining temporal 
rare utility Itemsets in large databases using relative utility 
thresholds", International Journal of Innovative Computing, 
Information and Control, Vol. 4, no. 11, November 2008. 
[6] Frawley, W., Piatetsky-Shapiro, G., Matheus, C., “Knowledge 
Discovery in Databases: An Overview”, AI Magazine, fall 1992, pp. 
213-228, 1992. 
[7] Guangzhu Yu, Shihuang Shao and Xianhui Zeng, "Mining Long High 
Utility Itemsets in Transaction Databases", WSEAS Transactions On 
Information Science & Applications, vol.5, no. 2, pp.202-210, 
February 2008. 
[8] A.M.J. Md. Zubair Rahman and P. Balasubram, "Weighted Support 
Association Rule Mining using Closed Itemset Lattices in Parallel", 
International Journal of Computer Science and Network security, Vol. 
9  No. 3  pp. 247-253, March 2009. 
[9] Hong Yao, Howard J. Hamilton, and Cory J. Butz, “A Foundational 
Approach to Mining Itemset Utilities from Databases”, In 
Proceedings of the Third SIAM International Conference on Data 
Mining, pp. 482-486, Orlando, Florida, 2004. 
[10] Jing Wang, Ying Liu, Lin Zhou, Yong Shi, and Xingquan Zhu, 
"Pushing Frequency Constraint to Utility Mining Model", In 
Proceedings of the 7th international conference on Computational 
Science, pp.685 - 692, Beijing, China, 2007. 
[11] Jianying Hu and Aleksandra Mojsilovic, "High-utility pattern mining: 
A method for discovery of high-utility item sets", Pattern 
Recognition, vol. 40, no. 11, pp.3317-3324, November 2007. 
[12] Yu-Chiang Li , Jieh-Shan Yeh and Chin-Chen Chang, "Isolated items 
discarding strategy for discovering high utility itemsets", Data & 
Knowledge Engineering, vol.64, no.1, pp.198-217, January 2008. 
[13] J. Han and Y. Fu, “Attribute-Oriented Induction in Data Mining,” 
Advances in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, AAAI 
Press/The MIT Press, pp. 399- 421, 1996. 
[14] Bing Liu, Wynne Hsu, Ke Wang, and Shu Chen, “Visually Aided 
Exploration of Interesting Association Rules”, In Proceedings of the 
Third Pacific-Asia Conference on Methodologies for Knowledge 
Discovery and Data Mining, pp.380 - 389, 1999. 
[15] Shankar.S, Babu Nishanth, T. Purusothaman and Jayanthi. S., "A Fast 
Algorithm for Mining High Utility Itemsets", In proceedings of IEEE 
International Advance Computing Conference, Patiala,India, 2009. 
[16] Ke Sun and Fengshan Bai, "Mining Weighted Association Rules 
without Preassigned Weights", IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and 
Data Engineering, Vol. 20, no. 4, April 2008. 
[17] Cai. C.H., Fu. A.W.C., Cheng. C. H and Kwong. W.W, “Mining 
Association Rules with Weighted Items”, In Proceedings of the 
International Symposium on Database Engineering and Applications, 
pp. 68-77, Cardiff, Wales, UK, July 1998. 
[18] Wang. W., Yang. J and Yu. P. S, “Efficient Mining of Weighted 
Association Rules (WAR)”, In Proceedings of the KDD, pp. 270-274, 
Boston, MA, August 2000. 
[19] Lu, S., Hu, H., Li, F, “Mining Weighted Association Rules”, 
Intelligent Data Analysis, vol.5 , no. 3, pp.211 - 225, August 2001. 
[20] M. Sulaiman Khan, Maybin Muyeba and Frans Coenen, "Fuzzy 
Weighted Association Rule Mining with Weighted Support and 
Confidence Framework", International Workshops on New Frontiers 
in Applied Data Mining, Osaka, Japan, pp. 49 - 61, May 20-23, 2009. 
[21] M. Sulaiman Khan, Maybin Muyeba and Frans Coenen, "A Weighted 
Utility Framework for Mining Association Rules", In proceedings of 
European Symposium on Computer Modeling and Simulation,pp.87-
92,Liverpool, September 2008. 
[22] Oded Z. Maimon, Lior Rokach, "Decomposition Methodology for 
Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining: Theory and Applications", 
World Scientific Publishing Company, ISBN-13: 9789812560797, 
May 2005. 
[23] Feng Tao, Fionn Murtagh and Mohsen Farid, "Weighted Association 
Rule Mining using Weighted Support and Significance Framework", 
In Proceedings of the International Conference on Knowledge 
Discovery and Data Mining, pp.661 - 666, Washington, 2003. 
[24] Hong Yaoa and Howard J. Hamilton, “Mining itemset utilities from 
transaction databases", Data & Knowledge Engineering, vol. 59, no. 
3, pp. 603-626, December 2006.  
[25] Chun-Jung Chua, Vincent S. Tsengb and Tyne Liang, "An efficient 
algorithm for mining high utility itemsets with negative item values in 
large databases", Applied Mathematics and Computation, vol. 215, 
no.2, pp. 767-778, 2009. 
[26] Unil Yuna, "Efficient mining of weighted interesting patterns with a 
strong weight and/or support affinity", Information Sciences, vol. 
177, no. 17, pp. 3477-3499, September 2007. 
 
 
  
7
